---
title: "Cole's vision story"
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-05-29'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

Now 19 year old Cole was first prescribed glasses with a low prescription of -50 R and -25 L at age 14. Cole who didn't think he needed glasses refused to wear them and in fact the only time he put them on was for the fitting. By age 16 Cole was having trouble seeing the board at school and with his drivers permit and license tests coming he knew something had to be done. Cole had been badgering his parents for contacts almost since being told he needed glasses and finally they gave in and said ok. Cole got his contacts which enabled him to get his drivers license and graduated high school with fairly good grades and he did have some colleges interested. Cole who had worked in the fast food business all throughout high school was able to buy a car and pay the insurance and upkeep. Cole decided college wasn't for him as he preferred working with his hands. After high school Cole went to vocational school for diesel mechanics while delivering pizza at night. Cole's problems started one Friday when due to a snowstorm in March his contacts didn't come in that day until just before is Optometrist office closed and he did not have time to pick them up. Cole who in spite of his Optometrist encouraging him to have a pair of glasses as a backup never did. Cole after taking his contacts out didn't think the pizza place would deliver that night but a phone call told him yes we are delivering. Cole whos glasses prescription was now -2.25 and 2.75 went to work that night and for the first time ever wore his very first pair of glasses outside of the fitting. Of course the glasses were now nowhere near strong enough. Cole who was usually the best delivery driver the store had struggled that night and his manager pulled him aside and asked if it was the roads or what was the problem. Cole explained to his manager about having to wear old glasses instead of his contacts and she understood. The next day being Saturday Cole's Optometrist was open until noon and he was able to get his contacts. Cole was his usual reliable self delivering pizza that Saturday night and that is when his break came. Cole who knew he needed a backup pair of glasses was unable to afford them and his parents couldn't help due to his Dad being off work due to surgery. A drawing among drivers with the pizzas delivered the previous month Cole won a Mexican food gift certificate. A coworker won a gift certificate to www.zennioptical.com. Cole does not like Mexican and the coworker does not need vision correction and if she did her Dad is the same Optometrist Cole goes to. Cole and the coworker agreed to trade the gift certificates worth $50 each. Cole didn't think the amount would be enough for even one pair of glasses but he was wrong. Cole was able to easily order 2 pair of glasses and have money left over for the next year if needed. Funny thing is Cole had only planned to wear glasses in case of an emergency but he started wearing them more and more. By the end of the school year Cole was rarely wearing contacts mainly when he played in a men's softball league. Many of Cole friends that he sees around time from time to time never knew he was wearing contacts asked him when did you get glasses? Cole is thinking about quitting softball says if he does he will stop wearing contacts and go only to glasses.

https://vision-and-spex.com/cole-s-vision-story-t1309.html
