---
title: 'Eva Got Her Wish: Part 4 of Glasses From the Park'
author: Specs4ever
date: '2019-03-31'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

 
                                
 
My name is Dakota Thomas, and while this is a standalone story it pretty much continues on with a story of something that occurred 3 years ago when I was 14 years old.  Our family consists of my mom and dad, and my 2 sisters Jessica and Eva and we all live in a new house that we moved into last year in a brand new subdivision on the outskirts of the city.  My grandparents had owned the farm that was now all covered with new houses. I was an honor student in my last year at St John the Baptist Senior High and since I had been wearing my -21D blended lenticular myodisc glasses I was considered a real nerd. I was content to study to keep up my grades, or read a book and listen to the music I liked. My dependency on my glasses would not have allowed me to play any team sports even if I had wanted to.
 
I have told the story of how I ended up wearing glasses before so I will not go into any boring details. I have spent the last 3 years with my eyes trapped behind very strong glasses, and I love every minute of it. My glasses are so much a part of me that I give thanks every day for that old man in the park who somehow must have recognized my desire to wear thick and strong glasses. I don’t know what the glasses were made of that the old man gave me. I do know he told me he had found them on the subway in the city, and he had put them on and could see perfectly wearing them. That had been over 60 years earlier and I also found that when I put these 60 year old thick plastic lensed biconcave myodiscs in a heavy black frame on my face my vision was extremely clear and intense. He only let me wear them for about 15 minutes and then after I took them off it took over an hour for my vision to return to normal. But those 15 minutes of perfectly clear vision made me want to wear glasses and for some reason the old man promised to come back the next day to see if I still wanted him to give them to me. Of course I did, and I have enjoyed the experience of wearing strong glasses ever since.
 
About half a year after I had gotten glasses my older sister Janelle had gone into my room without permission and had taken that pair of glasses that I had been given by that old man in a trench coat in the nearby park. She had not wanted to wear glasses like I had, but after wearing them for a little over 5 hours she could no longer see a thing without them. When she called on me to help her out, I sort of neglected to tell her that if she took the glasses off right then her eyesight would likely revert back to normal by no later than noon the next day. And I hadn’t even bothered to mention to her that if she went for around 48 hours without wearing any glasses at any time within the first 12 months her eyesight would also revert back to normal. She had worn glasses now for 2 years, so this option was no longer available and I considered a lifetime of glasses wear suitable punishment for breaking the sanctity of my room. Now Janelle, like myself and Eva’s friend Jessica, was completely dependent on the strong lenticular -21D myodiscs she had to wear.
 
Jessica was another story though. She was a friend of Eva’s, my youngest sister, and she and Eva had both been talking to Janelle, who had told them of the special glasses I had found that made your eyesight very poor without glasses. Eva really wanted to wear glasses, and Jessica already did wear them, but Jessica had a pretty low prescription. I was afraid to help Eva out, because if all three of us had to wear very strong glasses with the same prescription our parents would get very suspicious. They were suspicious enough when Janelle had to wear my old glasses for 3 weeks until her own new ones came in, but I am pretty sure that they have since decided that two out of three kids were just very myopic, even though our myopia hit us out of the blue with no previous high myopes in our family background. Anyway, Jessica ended up needing much stronger glasses all of a sudden, but her parents believed the story that her myopia had gotten a whole lot worse in a very short period of time. I had high hopes for a romantic involvement with Jessica, but almost as soon as she showed up at school wearing her new glasses she had attracted the attention of a whole bunch of guys that were taller and better looking than me. Jessica still hangs around with Eva and whenever she is over at our house I find myself looking at her and wishing she was my girl.
 
Eva still wants to wear glasses very badly. Recently she has taken to wearing Jessica’s old -5D glasses around. She wears them every day in school and also when our parents are not at home. Janelle is now away at University, so I am the only one home with Eva until our parents get home and she knows I won’t say a thing.  Eve is struggling to wear glasses that are -5D and I have been wishing I could help her out. I am still afraid to let her wear the old man’s glasses but I have been doing a lot of thinking about the powers of the old glasses, and recently I got to wondering what would happen if a person were to wear the old glasses for a period of an hour, and then when their eyesight was reverting back to normal they were to put on a pair of weaker glasses. I told Eva about my thoughts, and Eva wanted to try an experiment immediately.  She understands my reluctance to let her wear the old glasses, but she really wants to be a glasses wearer.
 
The following morning after our parents had left I let Eva wear the old glasses around the house for at least an hour. She was able to put my glasses on and see well through them immediately after taking off the old biconcave myodisc, but I then got her to put on Jessica’s old glasses. She went around in a blur and was still not seeing very well when we had to leave for school. As we got closer to school she was thrilled. Now she could see perfectly wearing Jessica’s old glasses. She wore them all day in school and then wore them at home until our parents got home. Gradually that evening her normal eyesight returned.
 
We repeated the experiment the following day, but that evening she wore Jessica’s glasses when we were eating dinner. Of course our parents wanted to know what she was doing with a pair of glasses on, and she explained how her eyesight had all of a sudden gotten bad and she borrowed Jessica’s old glasses. Fortunately our parents didn’t know much about glasses or myopia so they bought the story.
 
The next step was to get Eva a proper eye exam so she could get her own glasses. Eva wanted stronger glasses than Jessica’s -5D ones were, so she managed to borrow a pair from another girl at school who had glasses that were around -10D. We did the same thing that we had done with Jessica’s glasses. Eva wore the old glasses for about an hour and then she put on the -10D ones she had borrowed. The blur cleared up sooner when she had the -10D glasses on so we knew that while you could not control the prescription you ended up with, you could, by wearing glasses of a lower power, have the power your eyes required end up as the power in a pair of glasses you put on. This was very interesting to me.
 
And what was even more interesting was that Eva did end up with exactly the same prescription for her new glasses that was in the pair of glasses that she had borrowed. Now Eva could be a full time glasses wearer and she could gradually work up to a point where she could wear the -21D myodiscs that she wanted so badly to wear.
 
While Eva was wearing the -10D glasses I ended up going out with a girl who was very nearsighted. Megan wore contact lenses most of the time, but she had appeared at school wearing glasses one day. I knew as soon as I saw her glasses that the lenses held a pretty decent prescription. I ended up asking Megan out, and we ended up going together for the rest of the school year. While we were dating Megan asked me about the prescription in my glasses, and when I told her my lenses were -21D she confessed to me that her glasses were -15D and she knew she needed even stronger glasses. Before the end of the school year Megan had problems with her contacts and her parents ended up getting her a new, stronger pair of glasses. I managed to borrow her old -15D glasses by telling her that they were for my sister Eva who had badly needed new glasses for a month or two, but our parents didn’t want to buy her new ones until the end of the summer. Megan bought my story and Eva was thrilled when she was able to wear -15D glasses. Now the next step was going to be up to the -21D myodiscs, but something else happened first.
 
I found out where the old myodiscs really came from, and I met the son of the old man who gave them to me. I also met his daughter Morgan and I fell in love with her. Morgan got new glasses, and she ended up giving me her plastic lensed myodiscs, which we eventually gave to Eva who started to wear them as soon as she got them. And now we were able to tell our parents that Eva’s eyes had gotten just as bad as mine and Janelle’s were so Eva was now wearing -21D myodiscs. Actually Eva was wearing -22.50D myodiscs because the frame that Morgan had chosen was fitted very close to Eva’s face. The lenses were so close to Eva’s eyeballs that Eva had to cut her eyelashes so that she could wear them as close as possible without her eyelashes brushing across the lenses and by shortening up her focal point this way her prescription ended up as a -22.50D. Eva loved wearing her new glasses as much as I loved wearing my glasses, but I don’t think our parents were that thrilled that their three kids were essentially blind unless they were wearing the very strong glasses that they now needed to see anything further than the tip of their nose.
 
Specs4ever
July 2018
 

https://vision-and-spex.com/eva-got-her-wish-part-4-of-glasses-from-the-park-t1236.html
