---
title: Jacob from Hyperopic to Myopic?
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-06-03'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

Now 17 year old Jacob began complaining of headaches around age 12. Jacob who had an eye exam a year ago showing mild Hyperopia but it wasn't bad enough for the Optometrist to prescribe glasses. The Optometrist noting Jacob's vision had been stable for a couple of years said he could wait 2 years before his next eye exam. Jacob's Mother knowing this took him to and MD and no reasons could be found for the headaches so the MD suggested a visit to his Optometrist. Jacob had the eye exam and was prescribed glasses with a +.50 R and +.75 L which is less than most Optometrists prescribe for kids that age. Jacob is told he can wear his glasses anywhere from just up close to all the time. Jacob said he only planned to wear his glasses when reading or anything up close. The catch was Jacob hated taking his glasses on and off so he soon started wearing them all the time. Another eye exam at age 13 showed Jacob had no prescription change and since his headaches were gone both he and his single Mother were happy. Jacob who again was told 2 years between eye exams began complaining of headaches even with his glasses at age 14 so his Mother skipped the MD this time and took him to the Optometrist. The Optometrist after doing the checks found Jacob who had a growth spurt in the last year and a half had outgrown the Hyperopia and didn't even need glasses. You would think most teenagers would be happy but Jacob was not. In the short time of two years Jacob had gotten so used to wearing glasses that he missed them. Jacob lied to classmates saying he had started wearing contacts so they wouldn't know he didn't need glasses anymore. Again the Optometrist said it was ok to wait two years between exams explaining that Jacob could become Myopic or near-sighted as sometimes happens. At age 15 almost 16 Jacob began complaining that his distance vision didn't seem as good as it once was. Jacob reminded his Mother what the Optometrist said about Myopia or near-sighted. Jacob's Mother knowing he missed wearing glasses thought he was faking but his break came when he went to the BMV for his learners permit test. Jacob's Mother who wanted him to get his drivers license as soon as possible was mad as she thought he was faking. The lady at the BMV told his Mother 2 things. First Jacob would have to visit an Optometrist for paperwork and glasses if needed to pass the vision screening. The clerk at the BMV told Jacob's Mother she had seen many kids come in for their permit and drivers license test and none ever faked they couldn't see including her own Son who always wanted glasses but has better then 20/20 vision. Jacob went to the Optometrist and was prescribed glasses with a prescription of -1.25 R and -1.50 L. Jacob's Mother who had never worn glasses still thought he was faking. The Optometrist explained to Jacob's Mother yes some kids due try to fake needing glasses but they can't fool the auto-refractor. The Optometrist told Jacob's Mother his prescription was very close to what the auto refractor showed. Jacob gets his glasses and with them easily passes the permit test and later aces both the written and driving portion for his license. As expected Jacob started wearing his glasses all the time from day one which is that the Optometrist advised. Jacob is now looking forward to his senior year of high school starting in August. Jacob would like to go to a two year college but with money being an issue he will either have to work his way thru or possibly take some vocational training.

https://vision-and-spex.com/jacob-from-hyperopic-to-myopic-t1318.html
