---
title: "Jason's unfair traffic ticket"
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-04-10'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

When now 17 year old Jason was 9 at a routine eye exam he was told he had Myopia. Jason was 20/30 right eye and 20/25 left eye. Jason had 20/25 with both eyes open. Jason and his Mom was told he did not need glasses now but if his Myopia progressed as it normally does he would need them in 2 years. Jason was one of the lucky kids as his Myopia did not change at all. Jason's Myopia was still stable at 15 when the Optometrist told him if still stable she would prescribe glasses just for night driving next year. Jason passed his permit vision test and started learning to drive. Jason's Optometrist with his Myopia still unchanged from 9 years old prescribed low power glasses for night driving. The Optometrist told Jason he only needed glasses for night driving but it would not affect his vision if he wore them more. Jason got his glasses and always wore them while driving and at school and sometimes out of school. Jason gets his drivers license without the glasses restriction. One day Jason was driving to the airport to pick up his Dad. Jason had to go thru a small town notorious for speed traps which he knew and did the speed limit. Jason did not know the car he was driving had a brake light out and was stopped. The officer one of two in the town was notorious for hassling teenagers. The officer checked Jason's license and paperwork related to the car and all was in order. The officer then took a second look at Jason's license and sad I have to write you a ticket. Jason was wearing his glasses was issued a ticket for violating the terms on it. In the comments section of the ticket the officer said driving with glasses with no restriction on license. Jason now very upset drives the last 30 miles to pickup his Dad. Jason's Dad is tired and has him drive home. Jason waits until he gets home then shows his Dad the ticket along with the brake light warning. Jason's Dad an attorney is furious not at him but at the well known small town police with most of his anger being directed at one officer. Jason's Dad says "we are going to fight this in court" and when courts open the next day requests and gets a date before a county traffic court judge. Jason and his Dad show up for court as does the officer. The judge takes one look at the complaint and dismisses the ticket. The judge then chews out the officer for writing phony tickets and taking up the courts time. The best part is the judge tired of the officer frivolous ticket writing says I'm going to fine you $200 for contempt of court every time a ticket without merit comes before this court. The judge a former police officer says you scared a poor kid who had done nothing wrong telling him he could have wrote a fix it ticket which would only require mailing in a receipt for the repair or even purchasing the light if Jason and his Dad are doing the fix themselves. The best part is when the police officer says the future fines are unfair the judge says that will cost you $200 paid before you leave court. The officer does not have cash or a credit card on him and is actually has to wait in a jail intake area until his wife can bring the money for the fine.

https://vision-and-spex.com/jason-s-unfair-traffic-ticket-t1257.html
