---
title: 'Jessica Joined the Ranks: Part 3 of Glasses from the Park'
author: Specs4ever
date: '2019-03-24'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

 
                                 
 
My name is Dakota Thomas, and while this is a standalone story it pretty much continues on with a story that started when I was 14 years old. I live with my parents and 2 sisters, Janelle and Eva in a new house that we just moved into in a brand new subdivision on the outskirts of the city.  My grandparents had owned the farm just north of the city that was now all covered with new development. They had kept the farmhouse and a couple of acres, which my dad had inherited on their passing but the developers had wanted the land and the property for clubhouse and swimming pool for the development and they offered him a brand new 4 bedroom house along with quite a decent amount of money to sell to them.  Our old house was still standing, but the wrecking crew had trucks parked in the yard today when I came home from school, so it wasn’t going to be long before all traces of it would be gone. I was an honor student in grade 11 at Saint John the Baptist Senior High and with me now wearing my -21D blended myodisc glasses I was now a full-fledged nerd because I wasn’t ever really into sports, and now having to wear my very strong glasses to see anything at all more than a few inches from my face I was more content to read a book and listen to music.
 
A bit over a year and a half ago I had been walking home to our old house through Butterfield Park, as that was the shortest way. I had done that 2 days that week already, and both days I had noticed a man in a trench coat sitting on one of the park benches. The third day I sat down on the bench beside him and something fantastic happened. He let me wear the very thick biconcave myodisc glasses he had on and there was something special about them that immediately allowed me to see perfectly through the lenses. He told me a story about him finding the glasses, and then he told me that if I wore them I would always need the same prescription that was in the 60 or so year old glasses. I had never thought much about glasses, or being nearsighted until I put his glasses on for that first time, but it ended up being a dream come true for me. He made me think it over for a day, and when I came back the following afternoon he was there as he had told me he would be. I told him I already told my parents I needed my eyes checked and he gave me the glasses to keep. All I had to do was to wear them for at least 2 hours before I went in for my eye exam and the doctor would prescribe me the exact same prescription that was in the glasses. Then if I wore the glasses for the 3 weeks it took to get my own glasses my eyes would have completely adapted to the prescription. He also told me that if I ever decided I no longer wanted to wear glasses it would take me about 48 hours of going around in a blur before my eyes would revert back to not needing them, but this would only work if I did it during the first year. I have not had my glasses off for even a minute longer than necessary to clean them, so I think that I will be able to wear them forever now.
 
I had been wearing my new glasses for about 6 months and it was during the summer holidays when I came home from the library to find that my sister Janelle had gone into my room and had taken my old glasses out of my dresser drawer. She had put them on, and worn them for a bit longer than 5 hours and when she tried to take them off when she heard me come through the front door she found out that she couldn’t see a thing. It has now been a year since I convinced Janelle that by stealing my glasses to try them out she had ruined her eyes and she would always need the same prescription I was wearing. I think she has gone a little over the one year point so that even if I told her that she could take off the glasses and go around in a blur for 48 hours her eyes would no longer revert back to normal, but I have no intention of telling her anything. Her punishment for going into my room uninvited and stealing my glasses will be a lifetime of wearing glasses.  She has taken to the full time wear of her -21D blended myodiscs pretty well. She was definitely not a nerd before, as she was a bit of a foul mouthed rebellious girl who dyed her hair all sorts of colors. I don’t think she was into any sort of drugs, but I am pretty sure she smoked a little weed with her friends who were a bit like losers to me. Wearing very strong glasses has been good for her. She no longer hangs with her same friends, and to me, her new friends are a much better class of kids. Her grades have come up a lot and it looks like she will graduate from grade 12 with close to a 4.0 grade average. I have another year to go before I am graduating, and I also hope to graduate with a high average.
 
When I managed to convince Janelle that she would have to wear glasses now we told our parents that she had been having trouble seeing things and she thought she needed glasses, so she had tried my old glasses on and she had been able to see perfectly. That first day she wore those glasses for over 5 hours before I came home and she found that she couldn’t take them off. She still had them on when she went to bed, so that was about 13 or 14 hours of wear. That was just long enough to wear them so that when she woke up the following morning her eyesight was still terrible and she had to put the glasses on immediately to even find her way to the bathroom. I had lied to her and had not told her that if she went to around lunchtime without putting on the glasses her eyes would likely have reverted back to normal. I had wanted to find a way to get my younger sister Eva talked into wearing the old glasses, but I had not done anything about it because I was afraid that my parents would become suspicious if all 3 of their children had to wear extremely strong glasses as their first ever pair of glasses.
 
That night when I got home from school Jessica, my sister Eva’s best friend was there with Eva. I have to admit that I have the hots for Jessica. She wears glasses, and although her prescription is pretty low she looks fantastic. She is a bit older than Eva – maybe a couple of months or so, and she is a lot more developed than Eva. There is 3 and a half years between Janelle and Eva so Eva is just over 14 now and she will also be a looker, but not just yet.
 
Eva came and knocked on my bedroom door. She asked me if it was true that I had found the glasses that I had worn before I got my own, and since she knew Janelle had also worn them, when I told her it was true I knew that Janelle and Eva had been talking. Finding the glasses was one of the lies that I had told Janelle, but I didn’t know why Eva was asking this. Then she told me that Jessica wanted to wear them because she really liked the appearance of Jessica’s glasses. This was a wet dream to me. Jessica wearing blended myodiscs in a -21D prescription! This thought made me really horny.
 
I took the case containing the old biconcave myodiscs out from their spot in my dresser drawer and went to Eva’s room with her. In talking to Jessica I could tell that she was pretty nervous so I explained how I had found the glasses in the park, had put them on and found that I could see perfectly and somehow I had ruined my eyes by doing that.
She was full of questions and I answered them as well as I could. I told her that just by putting them on and wearing them for 15 minutes it would likely cause her vision to be blurry for about an hour but then it would revert back. But if she were to wear them for a full day it would probably take 48 hours or more for her vision to go back to normal. I told her I didn’t know what would happen if she wore them for 2 days or more, but I did know that both Janelle and I had worn them for 3 weeks before we got our new glasses and our vision had stayed the same even after getting our new glasses.
 
“You didn’t tell Janelle that if she went for 48 hours without wearing them her eyesight would go back to normal did you? I bet you wanted to punish her for going into your room and taking the glasses. Don’t worry, I won’t tell her. I think that she has been a much nicer person ever since she had to wear glasses.” Eve said with a grin.
 
Nobody ever said my little sister was stupid. But we had to get back to Jessica. We needed to find a solution to how Jessica could wear the glasses for a few days before having her eyes examined. I told her that she needed to find a way to wear the glasses for at least 2 or 3 days before she had an eye examination and that way for sure she would end up with the same prescription Janelle and I had to wear. The glasses were obviously a very old man’s pair so no one would believe that they were hers and she couldn’t really wear them out in public. I told her the story I told my parents; that I had been given them by the eye doctor from the donation box and they were a close enough prescription that I could wear them until my own new glasses came in. She decided that she could use that story. Then she and Eva decided that since our parents were going to be away for the whole 3 day holiday weekend in a week then Jessica should stay at our place for the three days. If she made an appointment for her eye exam first thing Tuesday morning she could walk to her own eye doctors from our house and Eva and I would help her find her way around when she had to take her glasses off. Then after Eva helped her choose a new frame she could tell her parents that they had found the glasses in one of the donation boxes and her doctor had told her that she could wear them until her new glasses came in.
 
The story sounded plausible so when Jessica went home she told her parents she needed her eyes examined before she went back to school. She got an appointment for the Tuesday after the long weekend, and she was staying at our house for 5 nights. As soon as our parents left on Friday morning Jessica put the old biconcave myodiscs on, and she didn’t take them off for the next 4 days. We all walked to her eye doctor together, and when we got close enough she took the glasses off and Eva helped guide her the rest of the way. She exclaimed, “God, I feel so blind now,” and that made me really horny.
 
Everything went according to plan. Jessica had the exact same prescription that Janelle and I had and her new glasses were ordered. She decided she wanted to try the really high index plastic lenses instead of the blended myodiscs like mine and Janelle’s were, but they were not going to come in any sooner. I was really looking forward to seeing Jessica wearing them because she already looked really hot with her weaker glasses.
 
I guess Jessica’s parents bought the story as well, because she wore my old glasses at home until the optical store called to say her new glasses were in. I was busy that morning so Eva went with Jessica to get her new glasses. When I got home Eva and Jessica were there. Jessica looked fantastic. The cut in was immense, and when she turned her head slightly to the side the lenses seemed to be really thick. But they really were quite thin as they didn’t stick out behind the frame much. I loved her appearance wearing them. Janelle was home and when she saw Jessica’s new glasses of course she had to try them on. She looked fantastic wearing them also, and she decided she was going to get a pair that looked just like they looked as soon as she could convince our parents she needed a second pair of glasses.
 
When Jessica showed up at school wearing her new glasses my hopes of dating her were quickly dashed. For some reason she had a number of other guys chasing after her and I was sort of left behind.  But she and Eva were still best of friends and I got to see Jessica around the house a lot.
 
Specs4ever
July 2018
 

https://vision-and-spex.com/jessica-joined-the-ranks-part-3-of-glasses-from-th-t1226.html
