---
title: Morgan and Dakota - Conclusion of  Glasses from A Park (Part 6)
author: Specs4ever
date: '2019-04-14'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

If you have been following the little mini-series about myself, Dakota Thomas, and the glasses I was given by an old man in a park near our house then you also now know the real story of how and why the glasses that altered your vision so that you became very nearsighted came about. You also know how in the last episode I helped Karl Schaefer, the son of the old man, and his daughter Morgan create a new pair of ladies glasses from a pair of the special lens blanks that had the -21D prescription ground into them. Karl had tried the bare lenses in front of Morgan’s eyes when he found them in his late father’s safe deposit box and they didn’t do a thing. I was the one that had the idea that Frederich, his dad would not have saved the lenses that Karl’s grandfather Herman had developed unless they were the last remaining pair of the special thick -21D lenses that were instrumental in altering our vision. I had worn the glasses that Frederich had given me for over 3 weeks so that I could get new, more modern and better appearing -21D lenses placed into a new frame, which had been on my face every waking moment for about 4 years now. My vision didn’t seem to have changed at all and that is the way it was supposed to be.
 
Morgan Schaefer was the most gorgeous girl I had ever met. I had been fascinated by the vision I got through the glasses her grandfather gave me to wear, so I did understand in a way. She was so beautiful I could not totally accept the fact that Morgan wanted to wear the glasses with the very thick myodisc lenses that had been created by her great grandfather for his son to wear to prevent him from being drafted into the German army and possibly killed in 1944. But Morgan had been thrilled when her aunt Betty, who had also worn a pair of the original glasses with the vision altering prescription when she was young, and was an optician who worked for a fairly large optical store in the city, had helped her choose a frame and had then gotten the lab to place the old thick lenses into the frame. When Morgan put the glasses on her face her vision immediately adapted to the power of the lenses and she would, unless she chose to take them off and go without the glasses for around 48 hours during her first year of wearing glasses, require a -21D or maybe even a -22D prescription for the rest of her life. My older sister Janelle had, without my permission, taken the original glasses I had received from Frederich from my room and had worn the glasses for a few hours without realizing what they would do to her eyesight, and she had just recently purchased herself a new pair of glasses, along with a pair of contact lenses. I don’t know why her prescription had increased a little to now be -22D, but her new glasses looked fantastic on her face. I was a little disappointed though that she had gotten contacts with money she had earned at her summer job. Dad had refused to spend the money on contacts for her because each pair of our glasses cost him over $600.00 a pair but she wanted to have them for her last year at university and she had bought them without dad’s knowledge or permission.
 
I had not been aware of it, but while the glasses could give a person a final -21D forever prescription after only a few hours of wear, the distance of the lens from a person’s eyes actually determined the final prescription. The way Morgan’s glasses sat on her nose was so close to her eyes that her eyelashes brushed against the lenses.  Her aunt Betty trimmed her eyelashes for her in order that she could wear them as close to the bridge of her nose where they felt the most comfortable. With very strong glasses every mm from your eyeball made a big difference, and now that the lenses were in a frame there was nothing that could be done to hold the lenses away from your nose if you wanted the glasses to fit tightly, which Morgan did. Morgan looked ravishingly beautiful with her new glasses on and when she kissed me to thank me for my help my knees went all rubbery and I could hardly talk. She slipped me her phone number and asked me to call her and while I had a hard time getting enough courage to do that I was so in love with how she looked that I absolutely had to get to know her better. It turned out that Morgan was as beautiful a person on the inside as she was in appearance. We got along terrifically, and while I was amazed that such a beautiful girl had chosen first to wear very thick glasses and secondly to choose a nerd like me to be with I couldn’t have been happier.  Morgan met my youngest sister Eva and since they were fairly close to the same age they got along very well. At this time Eva was wearing a pair of glasses that were around -15D that I had gotten from my now former girlfriend. We had discovered that if a person wore the glasses with the special lenses for a few hours and then took them off, if you put on a pair of glasses with a bit lower prescription in them your vision would adapt in a few hours to whatever the prescription was that was in the glasses that you were wearing. Eva wanted badly to wear myodiscs like Janelle and I wore, but I had refused to let her wear the old glasses long enough to have her eyes tested at the -21D prescription they would give a person. But now Morgan was going to wear her new thick glasses for a while and then she was going to, before school went back after the summer, order herself a nicer, thinner appearing pair. Eva had already let Morgan and I know that she would wait no longer and she was next in line to wear the pair of glasses that Morgan now wore.
 
Jessica, Eva’s friend and the third wearer of my old glasses came to me with a strange request. She had gotten contact lenses back when she was wearing her -5D glasses. She had now worn her -21D glasses for about 2 years, and now she wanted even stronger glasses. She wondered if she were to put in her contacts and were to then wear the old glasses over her contacts, would the glasses change her eyesight to increase to the prescription of the glasses plus the contacts. I didn’t know what to tell her, so all I could suggest was that she should put in her contacts and then we could try it. If the glasses worked to increase her prescription this way she should then be able to have her eyes examined and then her prescription would be -4.50D plus -21D. This could end up giving her a prescription somewhere around -26D. At one time I had been in love with Jessica, but she did not have similar feelings towards me. However, once she got her -21D glasses, which she ordered as full field very hi index lenses with a slight biconcave curve on the front she became so popular with guys that there would have been no room for me in her life anyway. We were still friends though, so I was willing to help Jessica out with her little experiment.
 
Jessica wore the old glasses around for about 24 hours over her contacts and then we went to the same optical store where Morgan’s Aunt Betty worked. Morgan had made the appointment for Jessica and Morgan and Eva came along with us, as Morgan’s new glasses were ready to be picked up anytime and Eva wanted to immediately start wearing Morgan’s special glasses. Jessica’s eye exam went as well as she had hoped. Her new prescription was indeed going to be -26D and we were rather excited that this had worked so nicely. Jessica had no choice now. Even using the highest index plastic she now needed to get myodisc lenses. Morgan had gotten her aunt to order her straight myodiscs, with no lenticular carrier. In order to have a decent myodisc bowl size her lenses were about a half inch thick, but the front and rear carriers were both plano. They looked dynamite gorgeous on her, and when Jessica saw them she wanted her new glasses to be made the same way.
 
Now that it was Eva’s turn to wear Morgan’s original glasses with the special lenses. I was surprised when Eva suggested that her friend Jessica should wear the glasses over her contacts until her new ones came in. I hadn’t thought about that, but Eva was correct in her thinking that Jessica should continue wearing the glasses over her contacts so that her vision did not revert back to her original prescription. I knew how badly Eva wanted to wear the special vision altering stronger glasses, but she put her friend’s wishes for an increased prescription in front of her own desires. Morgan didn’t mind Jessica wearing her special glasses over contacts for however long it took to get her new glasses, but she also was surprised that Eva was such a good friend that she would put someone else’s wishes in front of her own.
 
As it turned out Jessica’s glasses were ready in just over 2 weeks and Eva immediately started wearing the glasses that Morgan had gotten. Eva had to trim her eyelashes just like Morgan had done because the glasses were fit so tightly to her face. Jessica had offered Eva her old glasses to wear once the thick old lenses had done their magic so that Eva would have a nicer looking pair of glasses to wear until her own new ones came in. But it turned out that Jessica’s old glasses were a little weaker than what Eva needed, so she kept wearing the thicker glasses with the special lenses. Eva’s prescription ended up at -22.50D, slightly stronger than Morgan’s was.
 
Our parents were totally mystified as to why their 3 children had such high myopia and needed glasses that were so terribly strong. But there was nothing they could do about it, and since the only one who ever complained about having such poor unaided vision was Janelle they didn’t worry or say anything about it other than hoping that any grandkids we provided for them didn’t inherit our poor eyesight. Eva and I knew that Janelle’s kids likely would not wear glasses, but I am pretty sure that Eva’s would, and I knew for a fact that when Morgan and I married and had children every one of our kids would wear strong glasses. Morgan’s dad Karl and I had already had a number of discussions about this. Karl felt that if Morgan and I married and had children we should do like he had done and wait until the child was 15 or 16 like Morgan had been so that they could choose for themselves. Morgan had wanted glasses badly, but her sister Tracey had no desire to wear them at all, and if she had been forced to wear glasses when she was young she would have lost the ability to choose for herself and would have been seriously myopic for the rest of her life just like the rest of us.
 
I sort of agreed with Karl. I was 14 when I was given the chance to wear strong glasses by his father, and while I sometimes thought I would have like to have worn glasses when I was a lot younger I suspect I might have hated my glasses. Now I knew every day when I placed my glasses on my face that I wanted them there. Morgan on the other hand felt that age 3 was around the right age to start our kids off wearing glasses. She felt that she had missed something as a child. I already knew that when a woman has their mind up there is no sense arguing with them so I was prepared to have our 3 year olds wearing glasses.
 
I was so in love with Morgan that I hated the thought of having 3 or 4 years of schooling ahead of each of us. But we both knew that we needed to get an education so that we could eventually earn enough money to raise the family that Morgan wanted. She was prepared to have up to 5 children, all of whom I pretty well knew would be wearing strong glasses from an early age. 
 
I ended up going into corporate law. That meant I would be in school for 4 years and would article at a low wage for another 3. Morgan graduated as a legal secretary after 3 years, and since that coincided with my beginning my articling we decided we would marry that summer. I have never seen a more wonderful sight than Morgan that day Karl walked her down the aisle. Her new glasses that she had gotten for the wedding looked like jewelry on her face, with the lights flashing off her strong lenses. I thanked my good fortune that her grandfather Frederich had been willing to give me that old pair of special glasses, because it all culminated in this day.
 
My love for Morgan has never diminished. She got pregnant soon after the wedding and our oldest daughter is now 3. She is a wonderful child, and her new -21D myodiscs look fantastic on her beautiful face. Morgan is pregnant again, and I already know what is going to happen when the new baby reaches the age of 3. The old lenses from the men’s glasses were again reground into a frame suitable for a young child – not at Morgan’s request, but at the request of my sister Eva, who now has 2 children. Her oldest child is a boy of 7, and he has been wearing his -21D glasses for 4 years now. His little sister just turned 5 and has worn her -21D glasses for 2 years.  And what really came as a shock to me was when my sister Janelle came to me to see if her daughter, who had just turned 8 could wear the pair of special lensed glasses that Eva’s daughter had recently finished wearing. I was really surprised at this, but Janelle had not been able to adapt to contact lens wear and her daughter had wanted to wear glasses just like mommies.  It looks as if our parents are going to end up with quite a few very nearsighted grandchildren, all wearing their -21D glasses and I hope there will not be any of them that complain about having such poor uncorrected vision later in life.
 
Specs4ever
July 2018

https://vision-and-spex.com/morgan-and-dakota-conclusion-of-glasses-from-a-par-t1260.html
