---
title: The Hunter Sisters
author: Specs4ever
date: '2019-05-15'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

I first became aware of a girl named Dyanna Hunter the year I was 12 and went to junior high, as Dyanna was in grade 8 that year.  I was fascinated by Dyanna and I loved looking at her thick glasses, which to me seemed to be about 2” thick.  They really weren’t more than about an inch thick, but oh my gosh they seemed so thick.  And I wasn’t the only one that called Dyanna the girl with the 2” thick glasses because most of the other guys in grade 7 with me also called her that.
 
Dyanna really captivated my attention, and I don’t know if it was because of her thick glasses, or if it was because she was just about the cutest girl I had ever seen.  The thickness of her glasses didn’t bother me at all, but she was a year older than me and a year ahead of me in school so there was no way I was ever going to get a chance to do anything more than say a quick “hi” to her every time I met her in the hall. Even if I had the confidence to say anything else to her, she seemed to have her pick of any of the guys in grade 9, who all seemed to lust after that cute girl with the really strong and thick glasses and the long blonde hair and the perfect body.  But I did spend an awful lot of my time in grade 7 dreaming about Dyanna Hunter.
 
The following September when school went back I was in grade 8. Among the new crop of grade 7 students was a girl I soon determined was Kaycee Hunter, Dyanna’s younger sister.  Kaycee was tall, taller than all of the other girls, and although I knew I was going to be a lot taller because both my parents were tall, at the time Kaycee had to be about 6” taller than I was. She was quite thin, and unlike Dyanna was not nearly as curvaceous.  Either her breasts had not developed fully, not at all surprising as she was likely only 12 years old at the time, or else she was destined to have a much smaller chest size than her older sister. But she did wear glasses, and although they were very nice looking glasses that were quite thick they could not hold a candle to her older sister’s much thicker looking glasses. Since I had already figured out that I would never have a chance with Dyanna, I then decided I would see if I could somehow become friends with Kaycee.
 
When I saw Kaycee in the halls I would always smile, and would say a friendly hello to her. She would smile back at me and sometimes she would reply to me. But I never seemed to be able to get any more than a shy hello out of her.  This surprised me a little because Dyanna was very outgoing and chatty and even though I was at least a year younger and a grade below Dyanna she would now stop to chat with me if she had the time. Kaycee was very studious, and she would often go to the library whenever we finished our lunch in the cafeteria, so I also started hanging around the library. I loved to watch Kaycee when she was reading a book. Her sister would sometimes take her glasses off and clean them when she was in the cafeteria at lunchtime. She also wore her glasses a little loose, and they would slip down her nose. I loved to watch Dyanna take the index finger of her right hand, and fold her finger at the knuckle so she could push her glasses up on her nose by the rim without touching the lens. But Kaycee wore her glasses as tight to the bridge of her nose as she possibly could.  I had never seen Kaycee remove her glasses for any reason, and she certainly never had to push them back up on her nose.
 
It was around the end of September when I discovered that Kaycee spent the balance of her lunch hour at the library and I started going there as well.  I really didn’t have a plan. I didn’t want to appear to be as obviously interested in Kaycee as I really was but I knew I was going to have to somehow break through her shyness.  I noticed that she would take the same book from the library shelves and she would sit there at the desk reading the book until it was time to return it so she could go back to class.  I usually sat so that I was in a position to see Kaycee, and I was a little surprised to see that she brought the pages of the book she was reading very close to her face. If she held the book more than about 6” from her nose I would have been surprised and I wondered if her eyes were so bad that she couldn’t see well enough to read at a greater distance. One day I stayed in the library a little longer than Kaycee had, and I went to the shelf to see what book she had been reading. It was a rather thick fictional historical romance and when I opened the book I saw that the print was quite small. But that didn’t fully explain the reason for Kaycee to be holding the book so close.
 
While I was spending my time at the library I needed some sort of cover to be there, so I spent a lot of time doing some research on myopia. One of the things I discovered was that a very myopic person would often become even more myopic if they held their reading material too close to their eyes while wearing glasses that corrected them for distance. I had a hard time believing that this was what Kaycee was trying to do though, as she was already very nearsighted, and since her sister wore even stronger glasses the potential for Kaycee to need much stronger glasses was quite high according to what I had been reading. Apparently high myopia was now considered as being a genetic trait, and obviously Kaycee already had the genetics for very high myopia.
 
Kaycee and I often left the library together after the warning bell had rung for us to return to class. I didn’t have a lot of time to chat with her, but I made an effort and finally the effort started to pay off as Kaycee seemingly started to warm up to me and would now initiate the conversation. Our school held a dance on the first Friday after November 9th that was called Sadie Hawkins Day after a fictional event in a comic strip called Li’l Abner. On Sadie Hawkins Day girls were supposed to ask boys to the dance and it surprised me when Kaycee asked me if I would take her to the Sadie Hawkins dance. I had actually grown about 2” since school started in September, and it seemed that my being a bit shorter wasn’t much of a problem. I accepted her invitation, and we had a very nice time dancing together.  
 
That really broke the ice. Now after school Kaycee would often wait for me, or I would wait for her and we would walk most of the way home together. I had asked her once if I could look through her glasses, but she told me that she never took them off. I don’t know if she noticed the look of disappointment on my face, but she then told me that after she felt comfortable wearing her next pair of glasses she would bring her old glasses to school and let me look through them if I wanted to. Of course I asked her when that would be, and then she told me that her sister Dyanna needed to have an eye exam, so they would probably both be having their eyes checked during the Christmas holidays.
 
After we went back to school in early January I noticed that Dyanna now had a new pair of glasses. I guess her old glasses were as thick as normal glasses could possibly be, because the new glasses didn’t look to be any thicker. However I knew they were stronger, because from what I had been reading at the library I knew that glasses often had to be made with the prescription on the front side as well as the rear once the prescription got stronger than what they could place in the rear. These glasses had a dished in appearance which indicated that some of the prescription was in the front of the lens.  The stronger glasses didn’t affect Dyanna’s looks, nor did they seem to affect her popularity as she still had all the same guys hanging around her.
 
I was a little disappointed when I saw that Kaycee was not wearing new glasses. I had been sure that when Dyanna got new glasses Kaycee would also have new ones. But when I saw Kaycee in the library that first day I saw that she was sitting there reading her book wearing a pair of glasses that looked suspiciously like the extremely thick pair that Dyanna had worn for the past year. She was reading the same book she had been reading before the holidays, but now she was holding the book at what I considered a more normal distance from her face.  I was dying to ask Kaycee if she was now wearing Dyanna’s old glasses, but she changed back to her own old glasses just before the warning bell rang.
 
That afternoon after school let out Kaycee was waiting for me. When I looked at her I was positive that the glasses she had on were definitely Dyanna’s old glasses and as we walked towards her house I waited for an explanation.
 
“Did you really want to try my glasses on Darrin?” Kaycee asked.
 
“I know I likely won’t be able to see a thing through them Kaycee, but I would like to try them on. I don’t know for sure, but the glasses you have on right now look a lot like Dyanna’s old glasses. Am I right?” I asked.
 
She told me I was correct, and then she took her own glasses out of the case and let me try them on. As I had figured they were much too powerful for me to be able to see anything more than a blur, but as I tried to focus I reached a point where I could make out a few things. Kaycee had to eventually take my hand and guide me along so I didn’t trip, or stumble and fall. Finally I gave them back to her, and thanked her for letting me try them.
 
I asked Kaycee why she was wearing Dyanna’s old glasses. She told me that the glasses I had tried on were Dyanna’s old glasses as well, and that when she had her eyes tested during the holiday’s her eyes had gotten a little worse, but they were not quite bad enough for her to wear Dyanna’s latest old pair all day to school.  However, when she was out in the brightness of daylight she felt she could see perfectly when she was wearing them, so she planned on wearing them most of the time except when she was reading. She told me that by wearing them as often as she possibly could she would soon be able to wear them all the time. I didn’t say anything about noticing her wearing Dyanna’s old glasses while she was reading in the library though.
 
I was a bit surprised when Kaycee told me she wanted to get used to wearing her sister’s stronger glasses.  From what I had been reading about myopia it seemed to me that by doing this she would encourage her eyes to adapt to the stronger prescription in her sister’s glasses. I liked her appearance wearing Dyanna’s old glasses as much as I had liked Dyanna’s appearance wearing them, and I also liked Dyanna’s new glasses, but I didn’t think it was a good thing for Kaycee to be wearing Dyanna’s old glasses when they were a stronger prescription than her real prescription was. Of course, I didn’t say anything about this, as I had discovered by now that Kaycee had her own thoughts on things, and I did not want to say anything that might destroy our friendship.
 
I asked Kaycee to go to the school Valentine’s Day dance with me and she accepted. By this time I had gotten very accustomed to seeing Kaycee wearing Dyanna’s old glasses so it did not surprise me when I walked by to pick her up to see her wearing those glasses.  As I thought about it though I realized that it had been a while since I had seen Kaycee wearing her other glasses. Those super thick glasses that had recently been Dyanna’s had now become Kaycee’s glasses for full time wear.
 
I had met Dyanna and Kaycee’s mother a few times when I had stopped by their house. I could easily see where the genetics for their myopia had come from, because Mrs. Hunter wore glasses that had little circles in the middle of the lenses, and I knew from what I had been reading that this type of lens was called a myodisc lens and was used when a person’s myopic prescription reached a higher degree than what they could make in a regular lens. I really had not had any discussions with Kaycee about what the prescription was that she had in her glasses, nor what Dyanna’s prescription in her new glasses was.  But I was so curious about the prescription in her mother’s glasses was that finally on the Monday after the Valentine’s dance I just had to ask her about her mom’s glasses.
 
Kaycee told me that her mother had a prescription of -32D. And then she went on to tell me that her mom was one of 4 girls. Her mom’s oldest sister had a prescription of -38D, her next sister wore no glasses at all, and her youngest sister needed glasses that were -30D. Their brother, who was the fourth child in line had a prescription that was around -25D. Kaycee told me her grandmother had gone blind from a combination of very high myopia and retinal detachments and there was no need for any explanation as to where the genetic background for myopia had come from. There was some question as to how her Aunt Emily had managed to escape the family myopia though. And then Kaycee went on to tell me that Dyanna’s most recent prescription was now was -19.50D. Dyanna’s old glasses, which Kaycee now wore, had a prescription of -18.50D, but when Kaycee had her eyes checked before she started wearing them her eyes had tested at -17.50D. Her old glasses had a prescription of -17.00D, so Kaycee had actually needed a little bit of an increase in the power of her glasses. My mind boggled at all these numbers. I had never heard of prescriptions that were that strong. In all the library books I had been reading a prescription of -20D was considered as extremely myopic.
 
Dyanna and Kaycee had a younger brother who also wore glasses. Mark was in grade 6, and his glasses looked as if they had a pretty decent prescription for a kid his age. Mark was in the same class as my sister Amber, and I think Amber liked Mark because she would sometimes accompany me when I went over to see Kaycee on the pretense that she wanted to check on some schoolwork with Mark. Amber seemed to me to be a little too interested in discussing the strong glasses the Hunter kids wore and one day when we were walking over to see Kaycee and Mark Amber told me she thought she needed glasses. I was a little surprised, because over the last couple of months I had grown a lot taller and I had also been noticing that I could no longer see the chalkboard clearly at school. I had been thinking of asking Kaycee if Mark had an old pair of glasses around that I could try on, but I hadn’t done that yet.  Amber must have had the same idea because she asked me if I could ask Kaycee if she still had an old pair of glasses that she could let Amber try on to see if she needed glasses. I knew I could likely wear an old pair of Mark’s glasses, because his prescription seemed to be a lot lower than Kaycee’s was, but I didn’t think Amber could manage to wear an old pair of Kaycee’s. Kaycee had told me once that her first prescription was around a - 9D.and she got her first glasses when she was 5.  Her first glasses would not only be too strong for Amber, but they would also likely be too small to fit Amber’s face, although Amber did have a fairly small face for a girl her age. I would probably have the same problem with me trying to wear an older pair of Mark’s glasses, as I was sure that they would not fit me.
 
I did talk to Kaycee about letting Amber try on an old pair of her glasses. She also figured that there was no way that Amber could manage to see well enough through even her first pair of glasses, but she did get the case containing them out of her drawer, and she let Amber try them on. When Amber put the glasses on for the first time I could see her eyes blinking a lot as she tried to focus, but finally I could tell that she had managed to bring things into focus after a few minutes.  I expected that Amber would take them off and tell us that they were far too strong for her to ever wear them, but she didn’t. She left them on and went back to talking to Mark.  I was surprised, and a little jealous that Amber was able to see well enough through Kaycee’s glasses to function. And, even though the glasses looked a little small on Amber’s face they did not look out of place. She actually looked quite nice wearing them.
 
When Amber and I walked back home she had worn Kaycee’s original glasses for a good 2 hours. I asked her if she could see fairly well, and she told me that she could see great. She could even see things that she had not been able to make out with her own eyes.
 
“I’m going to wear them to school tomorrow Darrin. If I can see the blackboard clearly with them on I will wear them as much as I can and then I will tell mom I need glasses after I have worn them for a few weeks.” Amber said.
 
I promised not to tell our parents, but I was really disappointed that I hadn’t been able to get a pair of Mark’s old glasses to try myself. Amber then told me that Mark had just had his eyes tested and that he needed new, stronger glasses. He would be getting them in a couple of days and he promised Amber that he would let me try wearing his old pair then. I was much happier after hearing that.
 
I know Amber wore the glasses while she was in her room studying that evening. The next morning when she came down to have her breakfast she was still wearing them, and I knew she had waited until she heard our parent’s car leave the house. When the two of us headed off to school Amber still had them on and she told me she was determined to wear them all day. Amber got home first that afternoon and when I walked in the door I could still see that she had them on her face, so I figured that she had not taken them off since I saw her that morning. I asked her if she had any of her friends ask about her glasses, and she said a couple of them had told her that her new glasses looked pretty strong so she must have needed them very badly.
 
Amber didn’t leave her room until mom called her down for supper. I watched as she came down the stairs, and I could tell she was having trouble navigating without the glasses on. She managed to eat her dinner without mom or dad cluing in that she was barely able to see what she was doing, and when mom asked Amber to help her clean up after supper I knew there was no way she would be able to manage that, so I told mom that I would help as I owed Amber a favor.  The look on Amber’s face was priceless, as she knew she now owed me big time. After I finished I went up to my room to do my homework, but first I knocked on Amber’s door. She asked if it was me, and when I responded that it was she told me to come on in.  She was sitting at her desk doing her homework with Kaycee’s glasses pressed tight to her face.
 
“You can’t see much of anything without them now can you Amber?” I asked.
 
“It was awful Darrin. When I took them off and left my room I could hardly see a thing. If I hadn’t known where I was going I would have been in real trouble.” Amber told me.
 
“I don’t understand Amber. I have read a lot about myopia, and from everything I read it was supposed to take a long time before your eyes would become very nearsighted by wearing someone else’s glasses. But you seem to have gotten a lot more nearsighted in only a day.” I replied.
 
“I don’t think I have actually gotten a lot more nearsighted. I was already having quite a bit of trouble seeing things so I think I was fairly nearsighted anyway. And then when I put Kaycee’s glasses on I managed to force my eyes to see through them.  When I take them off, the initial blur is really huge, but when I have them off for a while my eyes go back to right about where they were before I put the glasses on. Then when I put the glasses back on it doesn’t take any time at all before my eyes adapt to the power of the glasses. I really like these glasses and I wonder how I can get new glasses with the same power of lenses as these have after I have my eye exam.” Amber asked.
 
I thought about Amber’s desire for a while, and then I came up with a solution. My solution would mean that we would have to crack the frame of Kaycee’s old glasses and then make it so we could hold one lens in with tape. Then if we walked into a one hour optical store with Amber wearing the broken glasses they likely would not question our request to make Amber a new pair of glasses using the prescription in Kaycee’s then broken glasses.  Amber liked that idea, and she wanted to head to the optical store right away, but I had to convince her to hold off until I could get Marks old glasses to wear around for a few days and then we could both have our eyes checked and we could both get our glasses at the same time.
 
I did get Mark’s old glasses from him and I wore them to school for about two weeks. Out of a class of 22, with me now wearing glasses, there were 13 kids that wore glasses, so there was nothing said about me joining the ranks of kids who now wore glasses.  Mark had told me that his old glasses had a prescription of -7D, but once I had gotten past the initial period of adjustment I had no problem wearing them.  Like Amber, when I took them off to be around our parents, I hated to be without them and I was finding I couldn’t see much of anything clearly unless I brought things to within about 6” or 7” from my face. We were getting ready to tell our parents that we needed to have our eyes tested, but dad noticed that Amber wasn’t able to see something that he pointed out to her until she got much closer to the television. The soonest that mom could get us our appointments was 3 days away, but mom had something important that required her presence at work that day and she was going to put our appointments off for another week until I suggested that Amber and I could go together and I would go back to her school with her. Mom thought about that for a few minutes before she decided that it would be all right if we did that, so Amber and I didn’t go to school that morning. We took the bus to the optometrists and when I could see where the door to the office was I took my glasses off.  Amber didn’t take Kaycee’s old glasses off though and when I suggested she should she just told me that she could see so well wearing them that she figured the doctor would just give her the same prescription. I didn’t think she could fool the doctor, but then she told me that she had borrowed an even stronger pair of glasses from Kaycee and she had been wearing them to school for the past week. She thought her eyes might even already have gotten worse than the prescription was in the glasses she had on. Kaycee hadn’t said a thing to me about that and I was a little upset at the fact that she was helping my sister ruin her eyes.  But then I realized that I was doing the same thing, and that if Amber wanted to wear extremely strong glasses like Kaycee and Dyanna then it was Amber’s own business. I told Amber some tips I had read about getting a stronger prescription, and I am sure that she chose the red over the green, and that she also told the doctor that her eyesight was a lot worse at night.
 
While we waited for our appointment Amber read a magazine, and she held it very close to her glasses. I did the same thing, because without having Mark’s glasses on everything in the doctor’s office was a blur to me.  Amber was called in first, and I sat there for a while longer. Then I was called in and the lady in the while dress made me look into a machine that made things go clearer and blurrier. Then she took me into another office and sat me down in a chair.  The doctor came in and he swung a machine over in front of my face and he had me look at a bunch of letters that were projected on the wall.  At first I couldn’t read them clearly, but he made the letters clearer, then he made them smaller, but blurrier, and finally I could read all the line on the chart so I knew that he had figured out my prescription. He led me back out into the reception area, and Amber came over to join us. We were given our prescription slips, and the receptionist wanted to make us both new appointments in 6 months, but I told her our mom would call her.
 
Mom had given me her credit card to use if we needed glasses. We didn’t want to get our glasses at the doctor’s so I had done some research and there was a one hour optical that was very close to Amber’s school. We could take the bus there and then I could walk her back to school. After we caught the bus I wanted to see what our prescription slips read. Mine was about what I had figured. I had been wearing Mark’s old glasses, but not for long enough to have my eyes adapt to his – 7.00D prescription. My real prescription was only -4D for each eye.  Amber had managed somehow to get a stronger prescription than the -9.00D one in Kaycee’s glasses. She needed -10.50D for both eyes now, and she was thrilled.
 
At the one hour optical I chose the exact same frame as the frame I had of Mark’s. I figured that my parents would never know the difference. Amber surprised me though. She had worn the stronger pair of Kaycee’s glasses from the eye doctor’s to the optical store and when she was asked for her prescription slip she told the girl that the doctor hadn’t given her one, but she still needed the exact same prescription that she wore in her old glasses. They checked her old lenses, and told her that her prescription was too strong for them to do it in one hour, but if they ordered the lenses right away she might be able to pick them up after school. Kaycee’s other glasses had a prescription of -12.00D and I knew that Amber would be able to easily force her eyes to wear them. After all, she had gone from wearing no glasses in September up to a tested prescription of -10.50D quite rapidly.
 
I paid for both pairs of glasses, and I waited for mine to be ready. Amber headed back to her school, which was only a block away, and then when my glasses were ready I headed to my school. I was again wearing Mark’s glasses, not my own, and I didn’t plan on ever wearing my own.
 
That night, when both my parents got home they were very surprised that both their children now needed glasses. Amber had not wanted to spend the extra money for the reduced thickness lenses and the only option she had paid for was the anti-reflective coating. She had chosen a frame that was very much in style, but was a little bigger size than I would have chosen so her lenses stuck out about 6 or 7 mm behind the plastic frame and our parents couldn’t believe that her eyes were so bad.  I had no idea what Mark had chosen for his lenses, but they didn’t look nearly as thick as my own cheap -4D ones were.
 
It only took a couple of days for our parents to become accustomed to seeing both their kids wearing glasses. At my school nothing was said, as I had already worn Mark’s glasses for a couple of weeks before my eye exam. Amber told me that some of the kids she knew had been a little shocked at the thickness of her glasses, but since they were already used to seeing the Hunter sisters wearing even thicker glasses nothing more was said.
 
My next step over the next few weeks was to photocopy my prescription slip. I took some white out and then I photocopied it again so I had a half dozen nice blank prescription slips, and I filled one out for a -9.00D prescription. Using my saved allowance money I went to a different optical store and had them put these lenses in my own frames. It cost me more than I had wanted to spend, because I figured I had better order a reduced thickness lens. And I needed to have the anti-reflective coating as well. When I picked the new glasses up I liked the looks of them a lot, and I tried wearing them to school the next day. I knew I was jumping the gun, as it had only been about 4 months since I had started wearing Mark’s glasses, and I didn’t think my eyes had fully adapted to Mark’s glasses yet.  I was able to function, and the only person that noticed that I had stronger lenses was Kaycee. She liked it that I was making my own eyes worse, because she really liked the looks of stronger lenses, and she actually wanted to get her eyes to the point where she could wear myodiscs like her mom and her uncle and two other Aunts wore. She did upset me a little though when she told me that she had let Amber borrow her -15.00D glasses a week or so ago and that she thought that Amber was now wearing them all day at school.
 
I had a long discussion with Kaycee about myopia and how stupid we were for ruining our eyes. Kaycee’s grandmother had been extremely nearsighted, and had gone blind from retinal detachments and I wondered if Kaycee or Dyanna worried about the possibility of that happening to them. But Kaycee told me that technology had come so far over the past few years that most retinal detachments could be repaired quite easily, and the chance of blindness was much lower now than it had been back when her grandmother went blind. She did tell me that it was very important to have our eyes checked by a specialist at least once a year, and she suggested it would be a good idea for both Amber and me to read about and know the signs of a retinal detachment.
 
The following year Dyanna went off to high school. I was in grade 9, and Kaycee was in grade 8.  Both Mark and Amber now attended the same school as Kaycee and I did, so I could now see my sister walking around the school wearing Kaycee’s -15.00D glasses. I had not been able to wear my -9.00D glasses all the time when I was still in grade 8, but over the summer I had managed to gradually get used to wearing them full time. Now Mark and I both had pretty similar prescriptions in our glasses. Mom had wanted both Amber and I to have our eyes checked before we went back to school, but we had managed to delay it. In mid-October though mom announced that she had scheduled eye exams for both of us the following week. I managed to put my - 4.00D lenses back into Mark’s old -7.00D glasses, but Amber was in a real dither. She did not have -10.50D lenses, nor did she have -10.50D glasses. My only suggestion for her was that she would have to tell the doctor that she had broken her glasses and had borrowed the -12D ones from a girlfriend.
 
My real prescription had doubled to -8.00D. Amber however, was off the chart. The -15D glasses that she had been wearing almost full time since school went back now became her real prescription. I wondered what was going through Amber’s mind, because I didn’t think she wanted to get herself a pair of new -15.00D glasses. And I really didn’t want to buy myself a pair of glasses that were only -8.00D.  Kaycee stepped in and helped Amber again by letting her have her old -17.00D glasses that she wore when she was in grade 7. I filled out 2 of my blank prescription slips again. Now Amber was going to be able to wear -17.00D glasses, my own new ones were going to be -12.00D and our parents were none the wiser.
 
Around Christmas time Dyanna finally got her first pair of myodisc lenses for her new glasses. Her parents allowed Kaycee to once again wear Dyanna’s old glasses, and Kaycee started wearing from them the minute that Dyanna put her new myodiscs on her face. I was kind of excited because I loved Dyanna’s myodiscs and I knew that by this time next year Kaycee would likely be wearing them. I envied the girls because it seemed so easy for them to reach the stronger prescriptions. I realized why this was possible, because the female growth hormone was linked to eyeball lengthening and it was not really that unusual for girls to need much higher prescriptions than guys. Both Amber and Kaycee had developed much bigger chest sizes over the past year, and I knew that Amber must have a lot of female growth hormones in her body in order for her to develop as much myopia as she had. I actually suspected that Kaycee’s mom’s sisters all had a higher than normal amount of female growth hormones in their bodies, and the reason her aunt Emily was not nearsighted was that she didn’t have the excessive hormone.
 
I loved looking at both my girlfriend and my sister wearing their glasses. I didn’t notice it with Kaycee, but Amber had always had big eyes, and now, behind the thick lenses of Kaycee’s old -17D glasses I could see that Amber’s eyes appeared to be very prominent. This was especially noticeable when she had her eyes closed. I looked up bulging eyes on google, but found that usually eyes that bulged out were often associated with Graves disease, and I didn’t think that Amber had any sort of disease. Then I checked out large eyes and I discovered that people who had large eyes like Amber were quite often naturally highly myopic. A person with an eyeball only 1 mm longer than the 24 mm that is considered the ideal, or normal length will be quite shortsighted and a person who has an eyeball that is between 2 and 5 mm longer will be very highly shortsighted.  It was quite possible that Amber grew to become nearsighted naturally because according the this same article a child who spent a lot of time indoors and doing a lot of reading was more inclined to have their eyeballs grow bigger. This, in combination with the possibilities of excessive female growth hormone in her body could be the some of the reasons why Amber was able to become very nearsighted as quickly as she had.
 
That spring I graduated from Junior High. Kaycee and I went to the graduation dance together and she looked so beautiful I could hardly believe my good fortune to be with her. Kaycee had been taller than me for most of the time I had known her, but now, even with her heels on I had managed to grow so that we were the same height. Kaycee had really filled out, and if the guys had thought Dyanna was gorgeous, Kaycee was now even more attractive than Dyanna. I was not as enamored by the biconcave lenses that Dyanna had chosen for the lenses in the glasses that Kaycee now wore, and I wished that Kaycee had the same myodisc lenses that Dyanna had now.  But I certainly was thrilled that I was with the most beautiful girl at the graduation dance.
 
I was expecting that Dyanna would have her eyes examined around Christmas, as she normally did.  She was in grade 11, and I really enjoyed seeing her walking around the school that fall wearing her myodiscs and I could hardly wait for her to have her eyes tested and get new glasses so that Kaycee could get her old ones again. This was one time I was disappointed, because Kaycee told me that when she and Dyanna had their annual eye exams, Dyanna did not require any increase. But the disappointment didn’t last long, because apparently Kaycee did need new glasses, and her prescription was going to have to be very close to the prescription that Dyanna wore, so I knew that Kaycee would be getting her own myodiscs. 
 
I asked Kaycee if she had ordered her new glasses yet, but she told me that she hadn’t. Then she surprised me by asking me if I still had one of the blank prescription slips I had created.  She wanted me to fill one out for her, using her new prescription, but she wanted me to add an additional -1D to the prescription. I did what she asked, and she ended up wearing her first pair of myodiscs with a prescription of – 22.00D.
 
I did nothing further to induce more myopia for myself. I was quite satisfied to be wearing my glasses with a -12D prescription. By now my eyes had adjusted well enough that I knew my real prescription would be very close to the prescription in my glasses. And although Dyanna had never minded the fact that she wore strong glasses, even though she knew that Kaycee and Amber had done everything they could to enable them to wear stronger glasses, Dyanna was quite content with her own myodiscs.  She was a little surprised to find that Kaycee’s -22.00D myodisc were the same strength that she herself wore, but she didn’t say anything to her parents.
 
It was very unusual for girls as nearsighted as the Hunter sisters to not wear contact lenses, but I certainly was pleased that Kaycee chose to wear glasses. Dyanna had talked about getting them now that her prescription seemed to have leveled out, but after trying them she decided that she would stick with glasses. And of course my sister had no interest in wearing contacts as she loved wearing her glasses.
 
The next few years went by rapidly. Dyanna ended up being a nurse and Amber ended up as a registered pharmacist. Dyanna married a doctor and Amber married Mark. Kaycee and I were the first to get married and Kaycee teaches kindergarten. Kaycee and I have a daughter, and I suspect that she will inherit the severe myopia of the Hunter family. Although, both Kaycee and Dyanna have much lower prescriptions than her mother and her 2 glasses wearing sisters and her uncle. Kaycee is pretty close to her uncle’s -25D prescription, but she has stopped at a prescription of -24D, and Dyanna is still right at the -22D she was in High school.  Amber tried to get up to as strong a prescription as Kaycee, but she ended up with a -21D prescription, and she seems satisfied with that as she mostly wanted to wear myodiscs. I still wear -12D glasses, although my prescription is only -11.50D.  My eye doctor keeps suggesting I should drop back to my real prescription, but I tell him that if I do my night vision is not as good, so he shuts up. Mark seems to have stopped his myopic progression around -17.50D. Dyanna and Mark are the only ones of the 5 of us that did not attempt to boost their prescription.
 
My father in law, Mr. Hunter has only recently started wearing glasses. He started with reading glasses but now wears them all the time, so that indicated to me that he had a tendency towards being hyperopic . Even though my mother in law and her family is extremely shortsighted  I suspect that Mr. Hunters genetic makeup helped keep his children’s myopia down to a more reasonable level. My sister and I had no myopia in our parent’s genes, but Amber was able to make herself attain over 20D of myopia and I managed to wear -12D glasses. Even though I tried to increase my prescription a little bit more, I didn’t seem to be able to, and Amber could not get up to Kaycee’s level. I can’t help but wonder if the amount of myopia that you finally end up with is genetically determined.
 
Specs4ever
June 2018

https://vision-and-spex.com/the-hunter-sisters-t1295.html
