---
title: 'The Obsession:'
author: Specs4ever
date: '2015-08-14'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

I think it all started when I was around 10 years old. I do remember dreaming about my fifth grade teacher, a young, pretty blond lady who wore glasses.  I was fascinated by her glasses.  They seemed to be pretty strong, and they had a lot of reflections from the front when I looked at her.  The front surface of her glasses appeared to be flat, or if not flat, pretty darned close. And, when you looked at her face to face you could see both sides of her face well inside the frames of her glasses.  I liked to look at her from the side as well, because then her glasses appeared to be at least a quarter of an inch thick. She never took them off – at least not while there was any students in the room. Quite a few times when I was walking past the door of her empty classroom she did have them off, and was sitting at her desk cleaning them. I would stop and watch from the other side of the hall, and I was enthralled by how she would blow on the lens, and then wipe the lens with a soft cloth. Then she would bring the glasses up to within a few inches of her eye to look through the lens to see if it was clean. If it wasn't she would repeat the process, and when she was satisfied that the lens was clean she repeated the performance with the other lens.  I always made sure I was out of her line of vision before she looked around.

By the time I was in grade 6 there were 3 girls in my class who came back to school in September wearing glasses. Before this there was only one girl who had worn glasses, and I didn't really like her glasses, because they really seemed to magnify her eyes. But all three of the new glasses wearers had glasses that made their eyes look just a tiny bit smaller, but very clear when you looked at their face. I liked this type of lens.

By grade 7 there were a couple of other girls in my class who had gotten glasses.  But unfortunately my old grade 5 teacher had been left behind in elementary school, so I no longer was able to watch her, and fantasize about her.  That is around the time when I remember waking up in the morning to find the front of my under shorts all wet.  I mentioned this to my best friend, and he laughed at me and told me I had been masturbating in my sleep.  I hadn't known that you could do this, and it seemed a little unfair that I would be doing something that was beyond my control.  So I looked up masturbate on the Internet.  There were over 73 pages that had something to do with masturbation.  I read some of them, and while a few people seemed to feel that it was harmful, the general consensus was that it can be pleasing, and that most people, both male and female do masturbate in one form or another.

 I then decided that I would take charge of my own masturbation. I didn't like waking up in the morning with my shorts wet in the front. After that in the evening when I went to bed I used some of the techniques that I had read about. But, I found I couldn't get excited until I started thinking about my former grade 5 teacher and her strong glasses.  Once I concentrated on her I found that masturbation was easy, and I felt really good when I finished.  And so I wouldn't come in my shorts I kept Kleenex handy so I could use that to clean up.  This method worked. Now I was also waking up in the morning with my penis all hard, and I was then able to masturbate in the morning as well.  Sometimes I would also think about one or more of the girls in my class at school who also wore glasses, and I would manage to satisfy myself when I was thinking about them. But it worried me. Unless I thought about a girl who wore glasses I could not get an erection.

Finally I realized that I was probably destined to marry a girl who wore glasses if I wanted to be able to maintain any type of sex life.  But the more I looked around at the girls that I knew who wore glasses I realized that in order to really excite me the girl had to wear strong, maybe even very strong glasses.  

After I satisfied myself that masturbation wasn't all that bad I began to look up anything and everything I could find about glasses on the internet. This led me to realize that I was not the only guy around who had a serious attraction to girls who wore glasses. And I was also able to find out that the girls who interested me the most had to be nearsighted, the more nearsighted the better.

I was in a real funk. I had no idea how I was going to be able to go about finding myself a very nearsighted girlfriend.  I had managed to find a few girls that were seriously nearsighted and wore strong glasses on the Internet, but they were either a lot younger than I was, or else they were quite a bit older. There was no one in my age range. And even if there had been I didn't have a clue how I was going to manage to find out who they were, or even how I could contact them.  I needed a plan, something that would give me access to all sorts of highly myopic females.

While I was doing a lot of thinking one day I realized that maybe I might have an answer for my problem. My friend Adam’s father was a doctor at the local hospital for sick children. I asked Adam’s dad what steps I would need to take to become a doctor. He was very helpful and told me practically everything I needed to know about becoming a doctor.  It sounded like a lot of hard work, but it was the only way I could think of. And when Adam’s dad asked me what type of Doctor I though I might like to become I was ready for him. I told him I thought I would like to be a specialist in eyesight.  Finally things started to come together.

By the time I was 15 Adam’s father had arranged for me to work for the summer in the pediatric ward at the local sick children’s hospital. When I was interviewed by the nurse in charge I told her that after I became a doctor I intended to specialize in children’s vision care, and fortunately she assigned me to the pediatric ophthalmology department. The first few weeks I was on the job it was like I had died and gone to heaven.  There were lots and lots of nearsighted children that came to this department, and a large percentage of them were girls. I wasn't particular, as all I wanted was a girl who lived in the same city that I did, was reasonably attractive, and was within 2 or 3 years younger than my age. I had met a couple of girls in the waiting room that were about a year older than I was, and I would have considered going out with either one of them, but they didn't seem to be interested in a younger male.  Although, on looking back at this their lack of interest could have been due to my lack of experience with girls.

I wasn't just hanging around searching out the girls who wore glasses.  I also had a job to do, and I actually got very involved in this job. I had to check out the patient record for everyone who was scheduled for the following day, and I had to print out the documents that the doctor needed for the appointment.  Because of this part of my job I was able to access the patient history for almost everyone who came to the pediatric ophthalmology department of the hospital.  I didn't know if it would be possible, but I brought my own flash drive in to work with me, and while I was at the computer I spent some time copying all the patients records to my flash drive.  If I had been caught doing this I was certain that I would be in real trouble, but finally I had everyone’s records transferred to the flash drive and then it was time to put them on my computer at home.

Then I found that my doing this had been a big waste of time.  The program that kept track of all the patients on the hospital computer must have been a special program, and I could not open any of the documents. So, I had to resort to plan B.  I had already been printing myself out a copy of the doctor’s report and findings after the doctor saw the patient.  But it was almost impossible to sneak any paperwork out of the hospital.  Every document generated had to either be filed, or shredded.  Fortunately I had a nice new cell phone with a decent camera in it, so I was able to take a picture of the page I wanted.  Even that was tricky. There were surveillance camera’s everywhere, and fortunately I found that out before I did what I first wanted to do. I had planned just to bring the file up on the computer and snap a picture of the computer screen, but this would have resulted in me getting caught by the camera. But I could walk down the hall to the shredding room, and stop in the men’s room on the way, where I would take a picture of 4 or 5 different files before I went on to shred everything.

Once I had the pictures of the files I would enter them into my home computer under the patient's name. By now I had actually met a number of these patients, so I could mark the file with a notation as to whether the girl was suitable or not.  There were not too many that were. I wanted a younger girl, and I wanted one who was quite nearsighted, but did not have any serious vision problems. And, I also wanted one who was attractive.  Don't get me wrong, as I wasn't looking for a raving beauty.  I just wanted a girl who was pleasing to the eyes.  By the time I had everyone entered into my computer I only found 3 that would suit most of my requirements.  Many of the very nearsighted kids had serious problems and didn't have very good visual acuity, even with maximum correction, and what the doctors generally did was to give these kids their best possible correction, which was often not that great.

Many of the patients came in for a check up by the doctor every three months, and depending on what the doctor found might have to come back in a few weeks for further testing.  However the three girls that I was keeping my eye on now didn't have to come in any more than once every 6 months.  They had all been in over the summer which was when and how I met them for the first time.  But now that September had come and I was back in school it was going to be a little harder for me to connect with them when they had their next appointment.  I still worked every afternoon after school was dismissed, but by the time I got there the doctors had seen all their patients and had gone home.

During the hour and a half I worked every evening I still went through the files and did the printouts for the doctor for the following day.  Every once in a while there was a new patient that had been referred to the hospital by another doctor so I would again take pictures of their records so I could look at them carefully at home.  I did have a pretty decent database on my own computer of a number of nearsighted young girls, but as I said, there were only three of them that fit my requirements so far.

I worked through the Christmas holidays, and I was fortunate that one of the 3 girls I was keeping my eye on came in for an appointment. She had bright flashes in her eyes one morning and her mom was worried that it might be a retinal detachment, but it turned out to only be an ocular migraine. I managed to talk with her for a little while when she was in the waiting room and I found that she was a very nice person and was easy to chat with. I got her instant messenger name and we promised to chat from time to time.

I went on chat when I got home and I saw that Bekki was on there as well, so I called her and we chatted for a while. She was 14, and was in grade 9 at Lakewood, a school on the opposite side of the city.  I didn't care, because at least she was only a bus ride away. But, as I wasn't quite 16, there would be no chance of our being able to date yet, and there likely wouldn't be until I had my drivers license and could use my parent’s car.

I managed to chat with Bekki most evenings for a little while.  We told each other a lot of personal stuff, but I really didn't know how she classified me amongst her friends.  I really didn't want to get too involved with Bekki until I was able to develop a friendship with Allison Sparks, and Kelsey Malone, the other 2 girls that I had picked as suitable candidates for my nearsighted girlfriend.   

Unfortunately Allison and Kelsey were going to be seen by the doctor in February. I assumed that Bekki would not be there for her February appointment since she had been there in December, but I was surprised to see her name on the list of patients that I had to prepare their charts for the doctor the day before.  I checked things out a little better. Apparently Bekki, Allison and Kelsey were being treated with a drug that was supposed to slow the progression of their myopia. This drug was called Atropine, and there had been a number of trials done with different people who had progressive high myopia.  Kelsey, who was every bit as cute as Bekki, had the highest prescription of the 3 girls. She was in the -17D range and Bekki and Allison were both just a little over -15D.  Apparently the Atropine had to be given every 6 months, and that is why Bekki had to come back in February.

The treatment must have been working. None of the 3 girls required an increase in their prescription at this time.  This was exactly what the doctors were looking for because when a young person around the age of 14 or 15 has an already high prescription their prescription will often increase rapidly during puberty.  I hadn't thought much about boys with high myopia, because I was really only interested in girls, but I did some more investigating, and discovered that there were also 2 boys that came in every 6 months to receive the Atropine treatments as well.

As summer approached I was looking forward to being back at work at the hospital.  I really enjoyed my job, and it was fueling my interests in children’s vision problems.  We had a number of young children who had lens removals because of cataracts, and these children were too young to have lens implants, so they had to wear very thick plus lenses in their glasses.  There were also a few cases of children with extremely high myopia who had to wear eye patches over one eye at a time to attempt to strengthen their other eye and to get their eyes to work together.  Some of the kids required prisms in their glasses, and I could see in some cases that the prism increased the thickness of their lenses on the side where the prism was. In children who were very nearsighted or very farsighted and wore what they called lenticular lenses the prism wasn't obvious, but I could read their chart and see that they had prism in their glasses.  And some of the very highly nearsighted kids had something called nystagmus which causes involuntary movement of their eyes.  I was interested in trying to help these kids, so my desire to become an eye doctor grew even stronger that summer.

Over the summer there were 2 more girls and another boy added to the Atropine program.  The boy was only 12 years old, and he already had a prescription around -20D.  One of the girls was a few weeks older than I was, and she had just turned 16.  Her name was Brittney Edwards and she was an extremely attractive young lady with a prescription of around -18D, making her the most nearsighted person amongst the girls. I met her for the first time when she came in to fill in all the necessary forms.  She seemed quite friendly towards me, and since she lived in my general area I hoped I could get to know her a bit better.

The other girl was Jo Ann Bishop.  Jo was 14, which was around the youngest age that I would want to go out with. Sure, in a couple of years, when she turned 16, I would only be 18, and that would not be a problem, but for now I was looking at the older girls. I didn't ignore Jo when I took all her information, because although she was quite thin she had a darned good chest size for her age.  Her prescription was only around -12D, and I found out that while this was a little low for the Atropine program her prescription had climbed very quickly over the past couple of years.  So they were hoping to prevent any more large increases in Jo’s myopia.

By the end of the summer I had gotten to know all of the girls in the program a little better.  They were all now in my friends group in Facebook, and we Twittered back and forth to each other.  I had access to their Instagram photos, so I could pretty well follow their lives – and their loves around.  Bekki and I no longer messengered, because we could now text and call each other, which we frequently did.

It became easier for me once I was able to get my stage 1 driver’s license.  At least I could drive around during daylight hours by myself, and I would sometimes drive over to the other end of the city to visit with Bekki.  But I was also interested in Brittney, and I managed to spend some time with her as well. I think she liked me, as she invited me to a dance at her school that fall.  We had to take a bus to get there, but this didn't seem to bother Brittney. However she was wearing contact lenses, and I was disappointed in that. I had noticed from different pictures that I saw on the Internet sites I visited that most of the girls wore contact lenses a lot of the time.  I suppose I couldn’t blame them, because they all wore glasses that most people would consider quite strong.

Over the next few years I managed to maintain my contact with all of the girls I had selected.   Out of the 5 girls Jo Ann’s prescription was the only one that had continued to climb significantly and rapidly even with the Atropine treatments twice a year. Now at age 20 Jo Ann was the most nearsighted of the 5, with a prescription just a little over -20D. Brittney was fairly close to Jo with a prescription right at -20D, but she had started out with a much higher prescription. Bekki, Allison and Kelsey had all experienced some increases as well, but they were all still under the -20 mark. Kelsey was right at -19D and both Bekki and Allison were at -18.00D.  To my eyes, it appeared that for the most part the atropine treatment was working.

I had been doing everything I possibly could to maintain my marks at school.  I was accepted into Medical School and would be continuing with my goal to become an eye doctor.  But my 5 high myopes were starting to slip away from me.  It was my own fault, because while I had dated them all on occasion I could not decide or commit to any of them.   However, Bekki, and Allison had both found guys that wanted to marry them, and they were soon going to be lost to me.  Brittney was going steady with a fellow I knew from school, and this looked like it could lead to another engagement shortly. Then I would be down to only 2.  I liked Kelsey a lot. She was pretty and had a very good figure.  But her mom was more than a little overweight, and I had seen some pictures of her when she was younger that showed me that she looked a lot like Kelsey now looked when she was her age.  Maybe Kelsey could keep the weight off, but I had heard a couple of older doctors talking one time, and the gist of their conversation had been that if you wanted to see what a girl you were interested in looked like in 20 years, then take a good look at their mother, So I was shying away from Kelsey because of this. 

This left Jo Ann as the only viable one for me.  I did like Jo Ann a lot. She was rather tiny in stature, although she was very pretty. Small girls don’t usually have large breasts but Jo was more than reasonably well endowed for her size.   And the best thing about Jo was that out of the 5 girls she was the only one who never seemed to wear contact lenses. She appeared to be indifferent to her glasses, as if to say to people that this is how I look and if you can’t accept it, I don’t need you around.  I liked that.

I started to spend a lot more of my spare time courting Jo.  She was actually going to begin her nurses training at the same hospital that I was doing my part time work at so I was able to see her around the hospital, and we would meet for lunch every once in a while.  With the memories of how I had lost out on 4 other girls that all fitted my requirements I had decided that I would make a special effort with Jo.

Jo seemed to like the attention she was receiving from me.  And I think she also realized that catching a medical student would be a little easier than it might be to catch a doctor. So our relationship was proceeding nicely, although we had to work around her schedule a lot.  But it was all manageable, and by the end of my first year of med school we were very much on track to get married.

I was still deeply involved with my children in the pediatric ophthalmology department. The atropine study was proving to be quite successful, and a large number of the kids who were myopic and had a large jump within the first year of them starting to wear glasses had been sent to us for the treatment.  One of the key factors was to identify those children who could end up as high myopes so we could get the treatment started early.  By doing this we were usually able to get these kids though the period of growth that resulted in very high myopia, and most of these kids were fortunate enough to have their myopic progression come to a halt with prescriptions around -10D or so. And the more time I spent with the pediatric department the more I realized that this was where I wanted to be.

After I graduated, but before I started my residency Jo and I married. She had completed her nurses training and was working at the hospital full time. We set up housekeeping in a small apartment that was a short subway ride from the hospital. It was close enough that we could walk if we had extra time, but soon found out that there is never any such thing.

Jo had a couple of prescription increases over the last 7 years, and her most recent glasses were -26D.  After we were married we had absolutely no problem with our sex life. Of course I credit my ability to perform as well as I did on those -26D glasses she wore. She excited me no end whenever she let me leave her glasses on while we had sex, and this was quite frequently.

I had been a doctor for around 5 years when Jo and I had our first child.  Grace was a healthy happy baby, and I was pleased that my work with pediatric ophthalmology was going to give my daughter a better chance at having a lower prescription than she possibly might have.  Jo had gone through the atropine program and had ended up with a very strong prescription, but my colleagues and I felt that Jo might have had an even higher prescription if she had not been in the program.

Sometimes I felt like I was a phony.  Here I was obsessed with women who wore strong glasses but I was doing everything I could to help other people avoid having very strong prescriptions.  I suppose it is all in the way you look at things though, as I was able to fulfill my obsession.

Specs4ever
April2013

https://vision-and-spex.com/the-obsession-t681.html
