---
title: When Tom and Amy fell in love An Allison and Rick spin-off.
author: blinddude22
date: '2023-03-03'
categories:
  - blinddude22
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

This story is all fiction.
Also, I would like to give credit to Specfiend who appears to be the original writer of Allison and Rick the terrifying test. I found the original story on one of bobby's old pages.

Moderator: The original story is here: allison-and-rick-by-specfiend-taken-fro ... t2555.html
 
Tom was full of joy and excitement. Today was the day he had been waiting for the last 12 years. He had finally finished school and graduated year 12. Yes, finally no more homework or classes to attend well at least not until he had to go to university next season. He was also full of excitement because tonight was Prom and despite his worst fears, he had managed to pull it off and score himself a date. Amy was a girl Tom had secretly had the hots for since grade 8 but he had never had the courage to ask her on a date. Granted he had managed to date a couple of other girls, but he had never managed to be with her. However, luck was on his side when her boyfriend cheated on her. Tom had learned about this and then managed to talk to a couple of her friends and one of them must have convinced her to talk to him because one night he messaged her, and she responded happily. After talking and flirting with her for a while he asked her whether she was available for prom. When he had asked this question, she took ages to respond, and Tom feared the worst but surprisingly she agreed and said that she would be his prom date. Yesss finally he would get a chance to go out with her and what a better chance than prom. 
 
For the last day the bell rang early, and everyone went to go clear out their lockers and socialise in the school canteen area one last time. After saying goodbye to his friends Tom texted Amy and asked where she was since she had planned to come to his house to get ready before they could go home though Tom needed to go with her to an appointment with the opticians. Amy didn't normally wear glasses and I had never seen her with them, but she had apparently gotten them last year because she was getting headaches and got prescribed a pair for reading and homework use. I'm out the front at the bus stop hurry up we need to get to my appointment in 20 minutes baby. Not wanting to let her down and risk his prom opportunities he hurried and sprinted out to the bus stop and made it just in time to catch the number 3 which was the bus they needed to catch to get to the suburb at the edge of town where the opticians was. Hey Tom, Baby I'm so sorry about this it's just there was no other slot available. Well let's just get this over with so then you can come get ready for prom. Honestly, I can't believe you agreed to go with me. Hey, you’re a nice guy plus there's no way I'm going with that dickhead Brandon no matter how much he says he's sorry. Hey, can I ask you a question what you think of these frames. She pulled out this pair of large plastic translucent pink ray ban framed glasses. she then put them on and looked at me. I hate these things TBH. Brandon said they looked shit and made me look stupid. When I saw her with these glasses I for some reason felt she looked 10 times better with them on, but I didn't want to be weird and just said I thought that they suited her. you’re just saying that to be nice Honestly, they look terrible on me. I was then about to give her another compliment but then the bus announced our stop and we had to quickly get up and get off. After we got of I looked around and took in the new surroundings. I had never been to this area before despite having lived in this town almost all my life. Just down the road from the bus stop was this sign that simply said opticians. Me and Amy walked down towards it but just before we arrived a woman opened the door and walked out. When she came out, I didn't notice anything odd about her except that she wore these strong looking glasses which seemed to make her eyes massive to the point that looked like something out of a cartoon. She walked up the street past us. I didn't want to appear to stare but these glasses interested me because I’d never seen someone with such big eyes before. As she walked past us, I noticed the lenses also seemed super thick and stuck out of the frames by almost an inch or something. As we kept walking Amy whispered to me lol hopefully, I don't end up as blind as her. We arrived at the door and walked into this small reception area. When we went in, I noticed it only had a desk and a couple of plastic chairs. Where's all the frame choices? Great I knew this would suck I can't even pick a frame while waiting. Maybe there in another room? Hello young lady a voice said. Suddenly this Man walked into the reception area from down the hall. Following him was this young woman. Ahh you must be Amy he said. Uhh yea I am. Your mother must have seen our flyer we dropped out. when she booked your appointment, she said that even when using your glasses, you said you still sometimes got headaches. Yea she said I might need an updated prescription. May I see your glasses if you have them? She then pulled out her glasses and handed them to the man who then told her to follow him down the hall. Don't worry Tom hopefully this won't take too long. She then left and I was alone in the reception area with the woman who had come down with him. So, sir what's your name. I'm Tom what about you. Oh, I'm Allison I'm the other optometrist around here so is that your girlfriend? I then explained that they had only just began seeing each other and that she was going to be my prom date tonight. Oh, it's so wonderful when you meet a nice pretty girl like her for something as special as your prom. Hey young man can I ask out of curiosity have you ever had your eyes tested? Tom pondered this question. He had remembered various eye tests at his school, but he had passed all of them and no one in his family except his grandma who wore reading glasses had bad vision. Um no I haven't. Oh, that's a shame it's very important that you have one done by a professional you know. Say just while we're here I can do a simple test on you now can you read this card. The lady then pulled this business card out and stuck it up right close to my face. The print on this card must have been microscopic since he found he couldn't make out a single letter. Um I can't read any of it. Oh, that's not a good sign that's a standard sized print card and at your age if your eyes are normal, you wouldn't have any issues seeing it. Say since you’re going to be waiting a while for your girlfriend could I interest you in a free eye test? Tom felt weird when asked this. He had no real desire to get glasses or anything and hadn't felt that anything was wrong with his vision but the lady who claimed to be an eye doctor said he might have an issue. Since I'm going to be here waiting, I guess I might as well. Besides even if he was told he needed glasses for reading or something he wouldn't necessarily even buy a pair. Well follow me this way please. Tom followed Allison down the hallway to this dimly lit room with an eye chart and a chair. Ok young man please take a seat now just before we begin, I need you to close your eyes and count to 10. It's a necessary part of the test. I complied suddenly I heard a door quickly shut and then about 10 seconds later I heard and felt these metal clams suddenly tighten around my arms and legs and as I opened my eyes and mouth to yell out something quickly gagged me and pinned my head back. Ahhggh what the fuck is going on. Tom tried to scream out, but the gag made it impossible. Suddenly he noticed the same lady as before next to him except now she seemed to be wearing a pair of glasses that were almost as thick as the girl he had seen walk out before had been and they seemed to have the same eye magnifying effect. Tom tried to struggle and scream but nothing made any difference. Don’t worry young man this is all just part of your exam since you couldn't even read the first line on card out there it means you are quite farsighted and will be needing to wear glasses from now on. Now we need to determine your exact prescription. Helplessly trapped jack could only accept whatever was going to happen to him. I'm so going to sue these fuckers when I get out of this, he thought to himself. Suddenly this machine that he assumed was used to test eyesight appeared in front of his eyes and the crazy woman began flicking a dial and testing what he assumed were different kind of lenses. After a few clicks he found he couldn't see properly anymore but this woman kept going until he found he could see nothing except really enlarged indistinguishable blobs. So, Tom how well can you see? I can't see shit you crazy bitch! He tried to say but couldn't. Oh, hold up she then clicked the machine several more times but by this point it made no noticeable difference. He again tried to muffle something. Oh, sorry I'll let you speak now besides this room is quite soundproof. She removed the gag. Not wanting something crazy to happen he simply said that he couldn't see anything. Hmm well from what my instruments are saying this is the prescription your eyes need. She removed the device and things came back into focus. Now Tom, I need you to choose a frame. She then pulled out 3 large dorky looking frames. One was a pair of large gold 1970s wire aviator frames. The other 2 were large oversized rectangular thick plastic ray ban like frames that looked like stereotypical nerd glasses from old cartoons in either a greyish colour or a dark polished black. Go to hell I can see fine dammit let me out of here. Ok well I think the black frames would suit you. Besides you want to look smart wearing these at prom tonight. I won’t wear them at all. Oh, that's what everyone says but unfortunately it will be necessary for you to wear them all the time from now on. Now I have a trial frame I'm going to put on you now so your eyes adjust to your prescription since at +10 it will take a little bit to get used to. Once you’re done your glasses will be ready and you will no longer find yourself struggling with vision issues. I can see fine FFS. Tom had no idea what she meant by +10 or what she was on about but just wanted to get this madness over with so he could go to the police and file a report for kidnapping and illegal detainment. Also, now he was worried about Amy and began thinking about what she must be going through right now. The mad woman then strapped a pair or goggles on his face that made him unable to see properly and told him she would be back. She then gagged him again and left the room.

When she left Tom began struggling and trying to scream out again. I've got to get out of here. he began panicking like crazy. Suddenly he began to think what if this is some kind of torture or murder dungeon like out of a horror movie and that he would ever get out of here alive. After 10 minutes of constant struggling, he gave up and just began to feel his whole life pass before him. Lol in going to die with a pair of goofy googles and a gag on my face in some weird ass dungeon he thought to himself. Suddenly he began laughing and crying hysterically of all the ways to go this was it. After laughing for a while, he relaxed back down and continued to Stare into the blur only for it to suddenly seem to clear up. He then found himself with crystal clear vision again, but everything now seemed much bigger than it had been before. He tried to look around but since his head was stuck, he found he could only look through the goggles. When he tried moving his eyes, he noticed his vision wasn't as good when he didn't seem to look through the centre and his peripheral vision felt non-existent. Strangely though for some unexplainable reason he now found he suddenly enjoyed all of this for some reason. strangely the thrill of being trapped behind these lenses seemed to turn him on and even began to make him get hard for some reason. Suddenly he began thinking about Amy again and how much he wanted to be with her. suddenly he heard the door open and close again. Well Tom how are you able to see now. Uhh I can see fine he gargled well now it's time for you to put on your glasses I must say I think they will look good on you. She then removed his gag and then the goggles strapped to his head. Suddenly everything became a complete blur and found he couldn't see anything. Omg I can't see for shit now. Well let's fix that. Suddenly he felt 2 bits of plastic behind his ears and then on his nose and suddenly everything came back into focus again. As that happened the clamps restraining him were released. Welcome to the world of wearing glasses. Jack got up and then looked around the room in a strange combination of horror and joy. Everything looked massive and close through these glasses and like with the googles when he tried to glance to the side and above and under his frame, he found he couldn't see anything and now needed to turn his head to look at things. Ok time to see your new look I must say the glasses really bring out your eyes. The lady then passed him a mirror and he then looked at himself now wearing a pair of oversized glasses with thick lenses that suck out the front of his frame and his own pair of now magnified eyes. When he saw himself, he felt sick but also didn't seem to mind his new look and all his anger for being effectively kidnapped seemed to go away like it had never been there. He took his glasses off to try see what they looked like but as soon as he removed them, he found he couldn't see anything and even couldn't make out any details of the glasses in his hand. Hmm I think you need to put those back on young man. Unable to see anything without them he complied and put his glasses back on his face. Honestly you should know something you and Amy make an amazing couple. It's also funny since you both now have matching prescriptions which is a billion and one chance. Anyway, time to go to see your prom girl. The door was opened, and Tom walked back to the reception to see Amy waiting in the foyer wearing the same glasses as she had put on to show him before except, she now had thick lenses like his did and magnified eyes. Well, you 2 have fun for prom. BTW here's an appointment card for you 2 for 2 mounts time since you might need a prescription increase. I took the card and put it in my wallet and we both left the opticians. When we got outside neither of us seemed to care about the whole ordeal we had just gone through where we had been kidnaped and now both were wearing super strong glasses. the appointment had taken slightly longer than planed and like before had to hurry to get on the bus to get to tom’s house to get ready. On the way there we didn't talk to each other much and Amy just seemed to be taking loads of selfies of herself the whole time. When I saw her, she seemed to be grinning and almost happy about her new look despite how much she had said hated her glasses On the way back I almost forgot I was wearing glasses and by the time I got to my stop I felt like they were a natural part of my face and no longer even wanted to take them of not that I could anyway  When we got to my house no one was home so we were able to go upstairs and go get ready for prom. Amy had brought her dress over last night and already dropped it off, so she was able to just go to the bathroom to get ready and I then went to my room and changed into My formal suit. When I was getting changed, I knocked my glasses as I took of my shirt, and they came off with my shirt and fell on the carpet. Unable to see anything I had to get down on my hands and knees and fumble around until I saw a blob that turned out to be them. I picked them up and put them back on realising I now definitely needed them. Happy to be able to see behind my thick lenses. I got my suit on and went to go check on Amy since it was getting close to time and the taxi my parents had organised for us to go was going to be here soon. Amy, we got to go. Ugg Tom just give me a minute ugg I can't get my makeup right. Can I see. I opened the bathroom door to see Amy squinting hardly at the mirror with a makeup brush in her hand and her glasses in the other. She put her glasses back on and faced me. Suddenly we began a long and hard stare at leach other looking into the others large bespectacled eyes. Amy, you look so beautiful already and your eyes are so pretty that you don't need makeup. Tom honestly your eyes also look amazing for some reason. She then suddenly stopped, and we began to kiss each other and at this moment we both connected, and I decided I wanted to be with her, and she was my dream girl. Later in life she would also bring up this moment and say the same about m. but back to the night at hand we still needed to get ready Suddenly I had an idea and looked up on my phone how to do makeup with glasses since she still probably wanted to do a little bit still. I quickly came across a short video of a girl a few years younger than us, but she seemed to be wearing glasses like ours. The tutorial said that a magnified mirror could help us but also another trick could be to hold the glasses in front of her eyes so she could see well enough to apply mascara. Or alternatively at the end of the short video the 3rd option was simply get someone else to do it. Since we were short of time, I asked Amy if I could try do her makeup. And I then got the stuff and began applying it to her face off another tutorial guide I found. I had no experience doing this, but I’d done face painting for my cousin’s birthday many years ago and surprisingly wasn't too bad at it and managed to apply the same skills here for Amy. It took a while, and we were cutting time short, but I got it done and she didn't look half bad. She slipped her glasses back on and looked at herself in the mirror. I suddenly got worried I’d done a bad job, but she then Surprisingly said I did better than she ever imagined. She looked at me and the eye liner around her eyes now made them even prettier. We then got downstairs and went to go get in the taxi to go to prom.
 
We arrived at our big night. When we saw all our classmates, they all commented on how our glasses were funny and that it was an interesting costume choice. Amy then tried to explain to one of her friends that she needed them to see but no one believed that either of our eyes had gotten so bad. One of her friends asked to try her glasses on but Amy refused, and the conversation quickly shifted to other things. After everyone arrived and had done the red-carpet walk, we were all taken inside and moved into our table groups. After having our formal dinner, it was then time for dancing and all the other stuff that goes on at prom night. after several hours the teachers said it was time to announce awards and the homecoming couple. We went back to our tables and the teachers first began calling out awards such as best suit and best hair and various other things. me and Amy hadn’t been in any of the super popular crowd or sports teams, so we didn't expect to win anything since it was always that lot who did but then it came time to announce the homecoming couple. At first there was a lot of tension in the air and several of the jock and cheerleader couples sat there thinking it was going to be them but then the principal opened a letter and read the words I'll never forget. Tom and Amy are the homecoming king and queen for this year let's give them a round of applause. Suddenly everyone stood up clapping and we were invited on-stage for our "crowning" and for photos. A few people booed us as we got on stage but that was limited to a couple of disgruntled popular couples and of course Amy's former love Brandon. Once the photos were done it was time to wrap up the night and everyone then began saying emotional goodbyes to each other. After we were done with that though the bad part of the night happened. Brandon came out to us once we were outside waiting for pickups, and he was not in a good mood to say the least. He came up and started going off at Amy saying how she was a stupid Bitch for leaving him just before prom for a shit guy like me also why the fuck are you also wearing those stupid glasses, they already looked ugly enough on you before did you go blind or something from kissing this dork? After that she asked Brandon to fuck of. I then got up and walked up to him to tell him to leave but he then pushed me back and tried to swing at my face. I dodged his attack, and he ended up accidentally hit one of Amy's friends. Seeing that 2 of the guys on the football team jumped in and tackled him but as they did, they knocked me, and my wallet fell out of my pocket I picked it up but when I got home, I realised a couple of things must had fallen out such as my I'd card and a couple of notes. I picked them up thinking I had everything and then told a now pinned down Brandon that Amy didn't want him anymore and that he shouldn't treat his girlfriends like garbage. The teachers then came and escorted him away. As he was walking away, I noticed a business card had gotten stuck to the back of his jacket with what must have been a bit of discarded gum but I didn't think anything of it. Our taxi home arrived, and we went back to my place. When we arrived, we went and stuck into my parents’ alcohol collection. Since we were both just turned 18 we felt it was ok to have a few drinks but had several and then found ourselves upstairs in my bedroom lying in bed together watching tv Suddenly a couple on the show started making out and as we saw that we turned to each other and kissed each other and out glasses ended up connecting which seemed to enhance the experience. After that well let's just say we had some fun together and half an hour later we were both lying back down in bed with nothing On except our glasses watching more TV until we fell asleep.
The next morning, we woke up both still wearing our glasses. When I got out of bed to get dressed, she said to me to check my social media. I opened my social to see a photo of me and Amy together from last night's prom with the caption in a relationship. It's now official baby she said to me. I was so happy at this point I finally had the girl of my dreams. She got up and got dressed and we then went downstairs to eat some food. As we were eating my parents got back and came in to see both of us. Hey son why do you have Glasses on now? I didn't know how to answer but then Amy said to him that I’d gone with her to her eye test, and it just simply turned out I needed glasses. Well son if you can see in them then alright maybe that explains your poor grades in maths and English. Mum then said you 2 look so cute together both wearing them anyway hope you had fun last night. After that my parents left us but not wanting to be around them, we both decided to go out for a day out before she had to go back home. During our day out we went around the mall and to various things to do in town until we ran into a familiar site as we were walking to a bus stop to head to hers. It was the woman from the opticians and the other guy who I’d seen when I first arrived both wearing super thick glasses. They then came up to us and asked us how we were getting along with them. Both of us then replied that we now loved them and then the man turned around and said Well that's true with everyone the glasses you have are great for bringing out true feelings of love especially when both of you have them. Anyway, me and Allison must go but we wish you luck together and know that you to will be together for ever. They then left and we then turned to each other to kiss each other again just as the bus arrived. We then got on the bus and went to her mum’s house. When her mum saw me, she didn't seem to say anything since she had only seen me once before and probably assumed I’d always worn glasses, but she didn't feel the same about Amy now sporting a pair of glasses in a +10 prescription. Omg have you gone blind or something you need to go to a specialist, or something how can you see with them? She began asking all these panicked questions, but Amy simply just said that she got an updated prescription, and her headaches and issues were gone. After spending half an hour assuring her mum, she could see fine and honestly didn't mind her glasses she began to calm down and I was able to drop her off knowing she would be happy. But her mum then asked If I wanted to stay over with her tonight and being in love with Amy happily obliged. Over the next month we found that we were both now used to being together all the time and had been at either of our parents houses together each night. Since it had been a month since school finished, we now needed to look into college and me and Amy both decided we would go to the same college since it wasn't too expensive and both of us could easily get in the only problem was it was in another city so we had no choice but to move away and get a place together. Over the next month we managed to get jobs and find a rental in the city we were going to. In other news as well I’d gotten my driving licence finally and my parents bought me a car. At first i was worried when i had to do a vision check at the road centre but surprisingly i passed and could do the 20/20 line which surprised the testing official who remarked that people with glasses as strong as mine usually could only do the 20/40. When I began driving, I had needed to get used to moving my head around a lot due to my new peripheral vision limit, but I got used to this and passed my licence test first go. The day of our move came, and we loaded up my car for the long drive down there. As we were driving along the directions took us past where the optician clinic was. As we drove past, we saw a young guy our age walking out wearing a pair of glasses as we got a closer look Amy opened the window and yelled out hey Brandon nice glasses you got asshole. He turned and stared at us, and I quickly looked and got a glimpse of my girlfriends' ex now wearing a pair of glasses that seemed even stronger than ours or even the optician or the girl we had seen had been. He looked at us driving along with a pair of round magnifying lenses in a massive harry potter frame. I then remembered the appointment card and mentioned it to Amy who laughed and said Well I guess we know who found it we both laughed and then drove off into the sunset. 
 
we made it to our new city later that night and couple of months later we had settled in to begin our part time jobs and our degrees. Before college began Amy and I both got a vision check at the optical store in the new city since we had missed our other one. We had suspected we would be told we needed thicker glasses but both of us turned out we had the correct prescriptions for our eyes and didn't need anything new. We however both did order some new glasses and got some new ones with slightly smaller frames and high index lenses which cost us heaps but managed to make some difference with our lens thickness, but our magnified eyes stayed the same. We also got fitted for contacts but strangely neither of us ever really wore them much and we both kept wearing our glasses. At one stage I accidentally dropped the original glasses i got and stepped on them destroying them and Amy put her Pair in the back of the closet somewhere to be forgotten about. we then finished Uni and it was also this time Amy fell pregnant. it was then decided we would get married and move into a new house. several months later our daughter was born, and we began the adventure of parenthood.
When our daughter was a kid, we had always been worried that she would get bad vision like us and we made sure to take for several eye tests over the years, but she had always passed them with flying colours. one day when she was 16, we came back from work though to find her sitting on the couch with something familiar on her face. When we asked her about them and why she was playing with mummy’s old pair of glasses she turned around and said that she had found them and put them on as a fashion statement but now she seemed to need them to see anything since when she took them off everything was a blur. We panicked and took her to an optician who confirmed she now needed a +10 prescription as well this baffled us, but she didn’t mind and soon was sent on her way with her own strong glasses. after this though I got interested as to why she now needed glasses after just trying on her mothers. I then remembered back to our optician’s appointment we had both gone through all those years ago. I then made it my goal to track the couple of Allison and Rick down but alas when I went back to see if they were still there I found that the store had been long closed and was now a clothing shop I then spent countless nights on the internet trying to track down either Allison or Rick or get information on these glasses or but found no records on them and eventually gave up my search. At that point I decided that it didn't matter anymore since our daughter liked her glasses and I simply then decided that I’d put Amy's old glasses away somewhere hidden in the attic maybe one day someone would find them and figure out how they worked but that would be another story for another day.

https://vision-and-spex.com/when-tom-and-amy-fell-in-love-an-allison-and-rick--t2554.html
