---
title: 18th birthday eye exam
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-12-17'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

High school senior Rocky was preparing to celebrate 18th birthday on a Friday in October of 1978. School was out that Thursday and Friday for what we now know as teacher in service days.. Rocky's parents and his Grandmother would be out of town leaving Thursday morning from their southern Indiana home for a music festival in Kentucky so a low key celebration was held ion Wednesday evening. Rocky an only child had ever since he started driving  at 16  stayed home many spring and summer weekends by himself while his parents went to their fishing camp and living in a good neighborhood there was no worries about doing so.
Rocky worked in fast food back then two or three nights a week and days for Saturday and Sunday with every other weekend off and this was that time. A manager knowing school is out that Thursday calls Rocky and he works that day and then prepares for his three days off before starting work and school again on Monday.
Rocky a stock car racing fan dreads being bored that weekend as both local tracks are done for the year and the high school basketball season is still a few weeks away from starting. On his birthday Rocky goes to a local mall to play video games.(yes malls used to have arcades) and it's there he wins a contest that includes a free eye exam and a chance to win a $200 gift certificate at the office which makes glasses in one hour. Rocky finds out that the exam is only good for him and just for that day or the next. Rocky who has never suspected any vision problems doesn't think he can get the exam due to being a minor and his parents are out of town but checks anyway and since he turned 18 that day can sign himself in for the exam. Rocky planned to have the exam and if he won the gift certificate and give it to his parents. Rocky's Dad is wearing glasses for reading and his Mom may need them shortly for the same thing.
Rocky hadn't had an eye exam in about 3 years gets one on his birthday. Previous exams had showed Rocky had 20/20 in his right eye and 20/25 for his left eye and was told there was no need for glasses. Rocky is surprised when he can't see some of the lines he did before at his exam. Rocky is told that if he took the drivers license exam today he would probably fail. Rocky is asked by the Optometrist if he has noticed any problem driving at night and he says no and is then asked if he drives mainly on roads he knows and he says yes. Rocky is given his prescription which is -1.00R and -1.25L with a minor Astigmatism for the left eye only. Rocky then has to pick from 6 envelopes 5 of which contain varying discounts on glasses and one that has the gift certificate. Rocky is lucky and get the gift certificate which easily covers the 2 pairs of glasses he orders, one with the popular at the time photochromic lenses and one with a tint at the top. Since his glasses will be ready by that afternoon Rocky grabs some lunch and plays a few more video games at then nearby mall.
Rocky picks up his glasses and goes home wearing them around the house and he kind of likes the everything being clearer. Rocky still bored with his good friend sick so he has no one to hang out with decides to go to an R rated movie just because he can now get in. At that time southern Indiana had no first run move theaters so he has to go to Louisville to a busy road. Rocky wears his glasses while watching the move and while most people start leaving when the closing credits roll tries reading them with and without correction and can't believe how much better it is with glasses. Rocky has not driven in that area in some time and then in daylight starts home without glasses but quickly puts them on as he now understand what the Optometrist was saying about driving at night.
Rocky on Saturday hangs around the house for most of the day mulling over how to tell his parents that he now wear glassses when they get home Sunday. Rocky decides to go bowling on Saturday night with his good frend who is now feeling better and again is amazed at how well his glasses help seeing the pins. Rocky's freind who has worn glasses for moderated Hyperopia since about age 6 is suprised to see him wearing glasses.
Rocky on Sunday after picking up some breakfast and returning home gets a call from his Mom saying they are eating lunch in a nearby town and wanting to know if he wants to come join them as there is enough wait for a table he could get there. Rocky decides this is his chance and agrees to come to the lunch. Rocky makes the 30 minute drive still trying to decide how to tell his parents. A teenager will sometimes think they have done something wrong but he hadn't. Rocky is wearing glasses when he pulls in the lot but his parents think he's wearing sunglasses on a bright sunny day until they notice he leaves them on when getting out of the car. To say his parents and Grandmother are surprised would be an understatement and how it all happened is the topc of converstation during the meal. Rocky had by that day been fairly close to full time wear and says since that is what the Optometrist advised will continue to do so. Rocky wearing glasses goes back to both school and work and gets the usual questions about them and no real teasing in school but some good natured ribbing from friends.
Rocky who never planned on going to college taking vocational training in high school goes to work in his field. By the time Rocky turns 21 his prescription is -1.25 and -1.50 where it remains to this day with progressive add of +2.25 although cataracts are just starting to develop. Rocky never married or had kids. Rocky is looking forward to retirement in a few years but wonders how quickly the cataracts will be "ripe" for removal.

https://vision-and-spex.com/18th-birthday-eye-exam-t1571.html
