---
title: A hidden wish, the complete story
author: grimon1
date: '2020-11-23'
categories:
  - grimon1
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: A young boy's past curiosity resurfaces when he stumbles upon his aunt's glasses, leading to unforeseen consequences.
---
When I was a young boy of 7 years I spent some weeks staying at my aunt Claire mums younger sister because mum was ill and in hospital for some time.
I don't remember very much of this time, but I enjoyed the time and the two of us had a lot of fun together. I remember one situation, when I asked Claire- she was wearing glasses constantly- to tell me what's it like to need to wear glasses. She could not explain this really good to me. So I asked her to let me try her glasses. She took them off and carefully placed them in my face. I ran to the bathroom mirror to see myself. I was able to see quite good through them, but quite different to my normal visual capacity. Though seeing not perfect with these glasses I liked my look with glasses. I went back to Clair and asked if I could keep on wearing them a bit. She didnt really agree but did not insist to get them back. So I kept on wearing them for quite a while going through Claires house and garden. Claire made a few lame attempts to make me give her the glasses back. But after about an hour she got a bit angry and determinant. So I gave them back. I never again had glasses in my hands and it was no theme for me any more after that.


Many years later I came home from my last school day seeing forward to the 7 week lasting summer holiday. I am almost 17 now and hope to make a fast track high school graduation in about 6 months.
My mum sat at the kitchen table and seemed to be quite concerned about something.
I asked what worried her and found out that Claire had suffered a severe stroke this morning. I was very sad about that, because i liked her very much.
Claire lives about 200 km south from our town. She workes as a state attorney, lives by herselfe in a little house with garden. She had been married for a couple of years, but that had not worked well and she was divorced now. She had a nice dog and an old cat. 
„ Who takes care of her pets now?“ i asked. „ Her neighbour, Anne, takes care, but she has to leave for a long period the next days“ answered mum. We talked about how to solve that and in the end i suggested to spend my summer holiday in Claire’s house. It would not matter to me if i prepared myself for the exams at home or at Clair’s place. My mum works full time and has no time to leave our town for longer. So she thought this to be a good solution.
Next morning i got on the train. My mum waved goodbye and round noon i arrived at Clare’s house. My mum had advised me that I should first of all look after the dog and cat, tidy Clare’s place up, put new sheets on her bed and after meeting Anne try to find out how the health situation of auntie was.
The dog was jumping up on me when I entered the house through the backdoor- Anne- she was informed that I would arrive and we had an appointment in her place- had left the door open, after taking care of the the animals needs in the morning- the cat was more reluctant. Tidying up was a quick job, because Clare’s house was all decent, except her bed. She suffered her stroke when sleeping and woke up not being able to move or speak any more. Her colleagues had wondered where she was and why she did not respond her phone and finally called the police. So she was found beside her bed and the ambulance had brought her to the hospital.
Her sleeping room and bed looked dishevelled and so i started to work there. After taking off the sheets and airing the covers and pillows I tried to sort out how to bring things to order. Between bed and night stand i saw something reflecting light. I fond Clare’s glasses. They must have fallen down, when she tried to get out of bed and fell to the floor. 
I examined them if they were okay and thought about where to store them. And with them in my hands an old interest like being hidden deep in my subconsciousness awoke. 
They looked tempting and I liked their look. They had dark oval rims and golden hinges, the lenses reflecting light seemed to have great power. I felt a growing wish to put them on. What would it feel like to have them before my eyes. I felt unsecure about what i did, but i could not resist. I was unable to see things clear but wearing Claires glasses was a pleasant familiar sensation. This confused me because in the same moment i felt impaired by the optical lenses. So after looking around for some minutes I took them off and started to search for a glasses case I could put them in. Going through drawers i found one with more than 20 glasses cases in it. They contained glasses, that aunt Claire must have worn over the past years, one was quite new and empty. It contained a little card with numbers on it. It said -7.5 left ; -8.25 right and some more numbers. I cleaned the glasses from aunts night stand with the cloth in the case and stored them away and closed the drawer. I had done the cleaning and had another 3 hours before my appointment with Anne .
After drinking a cup of coffee in the kitchen my thoughts went back to the drawer with the glasses. Like remote controlled i went to the room with the drawer. What did I want? My vision was good, glasses no theme for me till then. I think it was the smooth pleasant feel of Clare’s glasses and the remembrance of my first glasses encounter.
I opened the drawer and inspected the content. Every glasses case had this little card inside. The range was from 2.0 left, 2.5 right to the actual glasses that I had stored away. I tried some of the glasses, most of them were so strong that I had to take them off again. But to my surprise one of the glasses, it had a metal frame with mineral glass lenses that was wider on the topside and bowed in a curve on the lower part, the card said -2.25 left,-2.75 right, was different. I was able to see fairly well with them on. Things seemed smaller, but at the same time I seemed to see more details. I was thrilled. The glasses felt more heavy than the strong glasses aunt Claire had tossed beside her bed. But they fitted well to nose and ears and i had a strong wish to leave them on for a while. Walking with these glasses was like having drunk a shot of liquor. The picture I had through these glasses wobbled when I moved. But contrasts seemed to be sharper, colours more intense. I felt stimulated wearing them. With glasses on I started to unpack my stuff and make myself comfortable. I realised that there a strange tense sensation in my eyeballs came up, almost like pulling. It was not annoying at all it felt more like physical exercise.
I inspected the stock of food in aunts cupboards and fridge and made plans how to get settled comfortable. While being like in a rush caused by the glasses wearing experience I completely forgot about my date with Anne. I felt like spellbound to do activities as a glasses wearing person. I inspected Clare’s living room and tried to get the TV running when I realized that somebody else was in the room. I looked around and saw Anne: „ Here you are Robert, I expected you to come to my house, did you forget about me?“. I felt like being caught inflagranti, blushed and stuttered“ oh sorry Anne I didn't watch the clock“ I had a strong urge to take the glasses off, but in the same moment realized, that this might look strange to Anne.
„Don‘t worry Rob, just come over to me there's cake and coffee waiting for us.” I hadn't met Anne- she was Clare’s best friend- for some years. So she must have thought, that since our last encounter I had been prescribed glasses. The whole afternoon she did not mention the fact that I wore glasses. We talked a lot about my future duties and about the chances that Claire would come back on her feet. „It‘s a very big stroke she has, if she survives it, she will hardly be able to speak and understand. But when I visited her, she seemed to recognize me. Her eyes seemed to speak to me.“ I felt very sad hearing that same as Anne was. We spent the evening together, cooking a meal and then watching TV. I was surprised that my eyes now felt relaxed, there was no more pulling sensation and I was able to see, well, perfect. From time to time I felt the weight on my nose. I was slightly exhilarated to sit there with Anne and wearing real glasses with casualness as if I had done so for years.
Coming home to Claire s house I sat myself in front of the bathroom mirror.
My features were accentuated by the metal rims- they were decorated with a brown stretch of plastic on the topside- the lenses reflected light flashes and it was obvious they had quite some strength. This was no toy, it was real glasses to be worn by a person that needs them to see right and I had been wearing them for hours without a pause. What am I doing I asked myself. But instead of coming to a rational decision I decided to try reading. I got out my Math- book and read about an analysis- problem. I got a piece of paper and started to calculate. The glasses were no obstacle to do my exercises. 
I went to the bathroom to get ready for bed. before washing my face I took the glasses off. I was startled, my vision was kind of blurry. Luckily this didn‘t last long and my vision was good again. What i saw then, were two red marks on each side of my nose, where the glasses nose pads had been seated. I rubbed my nose but they wouldn't go away that fast. I felt like branded by the glasses. ‘I better should not repeat that’ i said to myself. I fell asleep fast and woke up when the first sunbeams reached my face. After feeding the pets I did some workout and went to the bathroom to shower. After brushing my teeth I saw the glasses on the bathroom- shelf „ no not again“ I said to myself aloud and left the bathroom. While preparing breakfast I had the feeling to miss something. I couldn‘t figure out what it was, but soon my feet found out and walked back to the glasses. I put them on without a second thought and went back to breakfast and read the newspaper. The tenseness and pulling was instantly there again, the weight on my nose was there, but I felt pleased to wear „my“ glasses. After breakfast I took ‘Cloud’ Clare’s dog on his leash and had a long walk outside. The wobble when walking had almost disappeared. The sensation of walking out in public with glasses on was an intoxicating experience. As if I had a new identity and saw the world with new eyes. My vision seemed to be more clear, and fresh. I was in a very heightened mood. 
Later Anne came round and asked me if I wanted to join her going to see Claire in the hospital in the afternoon. She gave me a list of things that I should pack together for Claire. This included her actual glasses. 
We came to Clare’s bed in hospital and I felt very uneasy to meet her wearing her old glasses. She would sure recognize them and wonder why the hell I wore them. But when we sat there holding her hand and stroking her, she gave me a bright smile through the lenses of her glasses that we had brought her, with her half hanging face.
This evening I didn't open my eyes while washing my face and put my glasses right back on after drying. I read long in bed closed the light and after putting “my” glasses off and deposit them on the night stand I fell asleep.
Next morning the sun woke me up early and I was unable to get back to sleep. So I got up. First thing I saw was the glasses. I hesitated for a short moment- what would happen to my eyesight if I wear these glasses every day from morning to evening- but the wish to put the glasses back on was stronger. The familiar tenseness in my eyes was there again and I kind of enjoyed this feel.
I went to a goodbye- breakfast with Anne. She was going to leave before noon to get her flight to Tokyo, where she would give lectures for the next 3 months. We arranged to phone each day, so Anne knows how things go with Claire.


After that I visited Claire in hospital again. Like the day before she looked at me with a warm and thankful smile. With her right hand that still was working she stroked my face, my long curly hair and touched the hinges of the glasses.


My life at Clare’s house came to routines. Looking after the pets, keeping the house tidy, visit Claire, phone with Anne and my parents and doing my school works. And getting used to wear the glasses constantly. The tense feeling after putting “my” glasses on in the morning got slowly less. I more and more got accustomed to the weight of the glasses, no more problems when walking with glasses.


After one week I felt pain on my nose, where the nose pads were seated. I took the glasses off in front of the bathroom mirror and as expected my vision was blurry without the glasses and I had to get my face close to the mirror to see my nose. There were deep marks on each side and they both looked inflamed. This was a bad warning. What should I do? Stop wearing glasses? My vision still was blurry, I felt a need to put the glasses on to see better but feared the pain of them as well. I had an idea. I went to the drawer with Clare’s old glasses to inspect her collection. Maybe I could find a pair without nose pads. I found one pair with dark oval plastic rims that was seated higher on the nose and seemed to have less weight. But the little card inside the case read: 3.75 left and 4.25 right. This seemed to be a lot more than “my” glasses. I tried them on. No pressure and pain on my nose and noticeable less weight. I was able to see, but not as clear as with the other glasses. I looked at myself in the mirror and instantly liked the look they gave me. They were smaller and their strength was more noticeable. The minification I had experienced, when I had the metal framed glasses on for the first days was there again and my eyes seemed to be smaller behind the lenses. After wearing them for some time my eyes got very tense, there even was a kind of pulsation in them. I was surprised that I felt the stronger prescription so intense. What should I do? Give it a try or not? Cloud was jumping up on me. My god I had neglected to give him a walk since hours. So I got the leash and walked the dog, with these much stronger glasses on. I felt the higher strength of these glasses every second I had them on and was exhilarated by this sensation. Coming home I sat in front of the mirror and tried to calm myself down and get a clear thought. If my parents knew what I was doing… I might get real dependent on glasses forever…. did I really want that. I walked to the kitchen to have some water and there had a look at the clock. It was high time to leave for the hospital to visit Claire. So I left the house quickly and went there by bus. Arriving at Clare’s ward my heart bumped heavy, what would Claire think when she saw me wearing these glasses? So before reaching her bed I took the glasses off, stored them in my pocket and with blurry view I encountered her. As she could not speak - the doctor had told me, that there was little chance that her ability to speak might come back – I told her what was going on with her pets and how my days proceeded and held her hands. As far as I could see her look at me was a little puzzled and asking. With her healthy hand she went to my eyes and made a circle with thumb and forefinger. I understood, she wondered why I had no glasses on. So I got the black rimmed glasses out and put them on. Her look was amazed and so I stuttered and told her that my nose was inflamed by the nose pads of the other glasses and that this was the reason for me wearing these glasses now. But her amazement wouldn't stop, she waved her healthy arm as if she said “I don't understand this all” and so I confessed the whole glasses story to her and that I was glad to wear glasses same as she did. Claire shook her head but finally shrugged her healthy shoulder and gave me an understanding smile. It felt like ‘its okay Robert, don't get worried’ 


After saying goodbye I walked the whole way home. The tenseness in my eyes had completely vanished and I was surprised how good I saw. I had the impression these stronger glasses made my vision even sharper, like having eagles eyes. I tried reading far away number plates of cars and was thrilled to even decipher those that were 150 meters away. I knew now for sure, that I want to wear glasses for ever. 
That night I was lying in bed with glasses on for long and thinking about what happened to me and how to get my parents to accept the fact that I was short sighted now and a constant glasses wearer. 
I designed a story it was like that:


‘One day when entering the hospital to visit Claire I was approached by a young doctor that asked me to participate in an eye test. With this test the eye doctors wanted to find out if there are people that were short- or far sighted and had not mentioned this yet. I participated and to my surprise was told, that I had severe myopia, that my eyes and brain had helped me to dissimulate for the past months and years. So they recommend me to go to an optometrist. I did that and he found that I needed -3.75 dp left and -4.25 right. He offered me to make me new glasses in an old rim, that he gave me for free. This was the cheapest way to get glasses for me. He made them for me and I was astonished how well I could see now.’
I thought about it for some time and next evening I dared to tell it to mum. “ My god Robert, I have always told you that the long close up work and reading you practice might lead to myopia. How do you feel with this new menace?”
“ Its okay mum, I'm already used to it.” 
So I came over this cliff. I kept on enjoying my days with pets, household, working myself through maths and physics, visiting Claire. Some periods, when being absorbed by what I just did I completely forgot about the glasses. 
Waking up in the morning my unaided vision was perfect. After putting “my” glasses on I felt my eyes work and get tense and after a couple of minutes I was completely adjusted to the them.
After two weeks in hospital Claire was transferred to a nearby rehabilitation clinic. I had to reduce my visits to 3 times a week, because I needed a long time to get there.
So I was more time by myself and sometimes just lay in the garden to relax. 


Lying there I developed a growing wish to experience the strong tenseness on my eyes again. I thought about it and said to myself ‘No, I wear so distinctly strong glasses, why should I try a stronger pair’. But the idea and a subtle wishing wouldn't go away and after one day of holding myself back I went to Clare’s drawer. I found a glasses case with the familiar little card saying -4.75 left and - 5.5 right. So tried them on. They were oval with a flatter bow on the top and a more narrow bow in the lower part. dark green olive colour except the lower part, that was clear plastic. I liked their look in my face immediately. It took a minute till the pulsating strength I had longed for was there again. My view was more centred but everything looked crystal clear. My heart was bumping with joy. It felt aroused. 


After 2 days I was completely accustomed to these stronger glasses. Looking at myself in the mirror I realised, that with my long curly brown hair and still not starting to have noticeable beard growth my features appeared to be more female than before. I thought this was caused by the style of the rims. But in the same time I loved these glasses so much.


It was time to go by bus and train to see Claire. I was calmer now. I had the impression she accepted that I was wearing her glasses. So, how would she react on me wearing the next pair of glasses? When entering the hospital an older woman approached me and asked ” Young lady could you help me to find the elevator.” I was a bit embarrassed and amused at the same time. After I brought her there she thanked and said “ I could see from far away that you are a nice young woman” 
When Claire saw me in the door she waved at me. As I got closer her eyes changed to complete amazement. She was in the meantime able to write with her healthy hand and so she wrote: “ Too strong for you, but looks great on you”
I said “ I am fine with these. Do you mind that I use your glasses?” She wrote “No not at all, but don't hurt your eyes”
One of the therapists came to Claire shook my hand and said “ Hello I am Judy one of the physiotherapists taking care of Claire. And you must be a daughter or a niece?” I was confused how to react on this and then stuttered that I am a nephew of Claire. She was very abashed and apologized many times. But I said to her “ Don't worry, this is not the first time people think I am female. I don't mind, that its not so important for me”. After I was alone again with Claire she gave me a playful look and wrote “I f this doesn't matter to you, why don't you come with a skirt and blouse and some pumps next time” I laughed uncertain “ Good joke, Claire”. But Claire wrote again” Why not, its maybe a good experience for you to dress as a woman for one or two days, expands your horizon. We have the same body length, I think my clothes should fit on you” Unsecure I said that I would think about it.


And this unusual suggest kept my thoughts busy till I came home. Claire always had been a very liberal person and had a strong position against masculine supremacy behaviour. Maybe she thought this could be a lesson for me not become a macho. And the idea of trying to wear woman's clothes was on my mind now. after coming home I had a look through Clare's wardrobe. First I needed underwear, I took out a black slip with lace border and a black spaghetti top. After I took all my clothes of I put these on. They felt smooth and nice on my skin. Looking at myself in the mirror I was not convinced of what I saw. So I got a pair of black nylon tights and carefully put them on, so they would not get damaged. This felt interesting on my skin. But still something was missing. I thought about it and finally got out a bra and after taking of the top I put this on, which was not easy, but I finally got it in the right position. I tangled up some socks and handkerchiefs and filled the bra. Wow this looked more convincing. I put the top on again and found a knee long pink skirt that was sitting perfect on my hips. A white blouse made my disguise perfect. looked at myself for long and was fascinated. I had the smell of Claire evaporating from her clothes in my nose and liked that very much. Now I needed shoes. I looked through Clare’s shoe cabinet hoping the shoes would have the right size for me and decided to try some brown pumps with about 4 cm heels. They were a little bit too tight but that seemed okay for a try. Walking with heels was another new thing for me. It had to be learned. So I walked a lot through the house and stood in front of every mirror and marvelled at my new look. After some time Cloud came to me and seemed to be a bit confused. He smelled me and Claire at the same time and I looked maybe different to him. He needed a walk out and so I got one of Clare’s coats, the leash and keys and we left the house. I avoided to meet people, because I felt very unsecure in my new role as a female. With Cloud I took a long walk through the nearby park. Every time when we met people I felt a little afraid what would happen. Would they realise that I was a young man disguised as a woman? Approaching home I saw the post woman waiting in front of the house. She had a parcel and some letters for Claire and smiled at me asking : “You are Mrs Claire Baker? I have a parcel and some registered mail for you” “ I said no, but I am her nice.” “That’s no problem, please tell me your name, so I can write it on this confirmation” I was puzzled for a moment, I could sure not tell my real name, so what should I say? “ I am Helen Baker” I answered and hot waves of feeling guilty for lying where going through my body. I signed as Helen Baker and the post woman smiled at me and said “thank you Miss Baker, have a nice evening” I felt overwhelmed it was like I was accepted now by the other part of mankind. I entered the house sat myself at the kitchen table and thought about what to do next. The feel of Clare’s clothes on my skin was marvellous, The Skirt, that had given my legs more freedom when walking was folding around my knees. I remembered, that I was running out of Toilet paper, pets food, fruits and vegetables. Okay I should go to the supermarket and buy what I needed. Could I dare to go there dressed as I was or should I better change to my own clothes. I walked in front of the mirror and tried to do this naturally I thought it looked convincing. Then I went to the bathroom and inspected my face. There was all these woman- toilet-stuff beside the mirror. I inspected that and took a cream jar and smelled on it. Smelled nice and it read skin conditioner for the face. I dipped my finger in and after taking off my glasses rubbed it thoroughly in my facial skin. After putting on the glasses again I saw that this really made my skin look softer and smoother. I did not dare to put make up on my eyes because I had no expierience at all with that, but what about some lipstick? I had seen mum many times putting it on and so I tried. The result looked okay and accentuated the female look of my face. Then I got a hair tie out of the little drawer under the mirror, combed my hair back and tied my hair together to a pigtail. Some strands of hair fell back beside my face, because they were too short, but the result looked very appealing. Getting a bit cocky I checked Clare's jewellery box. I found a pair of not so striking earn clips and put them on and to top it a pearl necklace. Wow, this looked great on me.
I saw Clare's shoulder bag- made of dark leather and looking very stylish- in her room, and had the thought, hey, that's what a woman needs, when she leaves the house. Inside was Clare's personal stuff and I deposited that in the wardrobe. I put my money and keys in, threw it over my shoulder and left for shopping. I took Clare's bicycle, that had a big basket mounted on its luggage rack, to drive into town. 
While driving I passed a bar and there I saw a woman outside that had an agressive discussion with a drunk guy. He seemed to be her husband or boyfriend. Just when passing the two the guy grabbed her with one hand on her arm and with the other hand in her hair to pull her back into the bar. I instantly stopped with shock and without thinking I shouted “ Hey stop that at once this is not right, I call the police” The guy looked puzzled at me and for a moment I was scared he would attack me too. But he took his hands off the woman and ran away. The woman rubbed her arm and tried to get her hair back in shape and came up to me “Thank you so much my dear. You are very courageous to act like that. I am Fanny” and we shook hands “ I am Helen” I said “ I was so shocked, when I saw what this guy was doing I had to react. Are you okay?” “Maybe a blue mark on the arm and maybe some hair lost. This was my former husband. Every time I meet him he tries to get me to have a drink with him, but I sure don't want that. I hope I never see him again” “But Fanny why don't we call the police, I am your witness that he attacked and hurt you”
But Fanny did not want to call the police. She invited me to come for dinner to her. I thought about it and said” okay, but first I have to go shop same stuff, bring it home and feed the pets.” She gave me her address and I went on to the market. Nobody seemed to be suspicious about my sex. I felt a bit more like being accepted as a real woman. 


Coming home, feeding the dog and cat. They seemed to have accepted, that I now looked like a woman instead of a man. So I asked myself, was that the lesson Clare wanted me to learn?


I came to Fanny, we had dinner, talked a lot and laughed a lot. She was 8 years older than me and worked as a nurse. 
She noticed that I had no make up on my eyes and told me that this would sure look very good on me. I confessed, that I had not learned yet how to put mascara and stuff like that on. So she taught me and I was surprised what a difference eye make up made. The glasses seemed to look a even a bit more feminine. But the best for my self-esteem was: Fanny accepted me as a woman completely. 
Coming home and taking off shoulder bag and coat I stood there a long time in front of the big wardrobe mirror and looked at my new appearance. Was it that easy to change from man to woman? Before going to sleep I put on a beautiful silk nightgown from Clare’s wardrobe. I wanted to have no break in being female.


I spent the next day in Clare’s clothing again. I used more time for my make up and selected different jewellery and even dared to put on some perfume. I wanted to surprise Claire on my next visit with a convincing performance. 




The following day I went to visit Claire. I was no more anxious about appearing as a woman without being one and entered the train that would bring me to the Rehab. I sat in a compartment with a young man and looked out the window because I liked seeing the landscape passing by. When I had a look in an other direction I realised that the guy sitting opposite me was staring at my breast and my legs in the nylon tights. I blushed and he said “ Hello, I am Adam, where are you heading?” I was puzzled, said my name and where I was travelling. He kept on making conversation with me and when I got ready to leave the train he asked me to give him my phone- number. I shyly answered, that I didn't want to give him my number and left quickly. I felt like Tony Curtis in the film “some like it hot”, when this Japanese millionaire started flirting with him. I realised, that pretending to be a woman could implicate trouble.
I arrived at the clinic and was in fear to meet the physiotherapist again, that had addressed me as female. Then entering Clare's room- oh my god, she was just making exercises with her. I wanted to sink deep in the ground immediately. Claire waved a hello and the physiotherapist turned around and said hello and turned back to her client. Clare wrote something on a piece of paper for her, she read it and turned around to me: ” Hello I am Judy, so you are the twin sister of the young man I met a couple days ago!?” I felt relieved and answered: “Yes right, I am Helen, my brother had told me that you had thought him to be female. This happens often to him.” I sat down and waited till she was ready and after she left I went to Claire. She looked at me with the brightest look and stroked the clothes I was wearing. She wrote: ‘I cant believe it you look so marvellous, a beautiful young lady, how do you feel?’ I told her about my adventures of the last 3 days and that I was impressed to get to know how it was like to be a woman. Claire wrote “I am proud of you, that you dared” 


Coming home the phone showed, that mum had tried to call. So I called her back and she told me, that she would have a free week from the day after tomorrow on and come to see me. Now I had a new problem. I thought about what to do and went to the glasses drawer. I would need glasses that did not look so feminine, mum would maybe not accept that. I found one that had -5.25 left and -6.00 right and had a more unisex style ,black, rectangular with rounded edges. Oh my god, another increase in strength, but it was my best choice.


So next day I said goodbye to Helen Baker and put on my normal clothing and the stronger glasses. I felt the higher strength immediately and I have to admit I liked this sensation again. The glasses looked okay on me and were very nice to wear, no pressure on nose or ears. In a way I felt a relief to get back to my normal male self. Being a woman for longer might have caused more and more problems. For example, that I had to fend off more admirers and if I got in a situation like that I experienced with Fanny the police might ask for my ID- card and in the end, how should I make my exams as a female. But it was a nice adventure to simulate being female. I would never forget about it. But now I was happy to live my normal sex again. Though it was a pity that I was unable now to meet Fanny any more, I liked her very much.
Next day mum arrived. I collected her from the train station and we walked to Clare's house to leave her luggage there and then take another train to visit Claire. Mum took a long look at my now bespectacled face: “Okay, I think I have to get used to your new look, I must admit it suites you well. But the glasses really look strong” I answered: “ I am so used to wearing glasses now, many times I forget, that they are there.”


Claire was after some weeks able to live in her house again, but she had to give away her dog, because she was too impaired to go out with him. Her ability to speak never came back and she had to give up her job. So she spend her live aided by different helping hands and was writing legal annotations to many legal themes and was a reputable person in the judiciary system.
I had my exams as expected after 6 months and came after finishing them successfully for a longer visit to Claire. We very familiar to each other like old friends and I asked her, if I could have one of her stronger glasses. She sighed and told me to help myself. I fancied a pair with a dark red cat eye style frame with -6.5 left and -7.25 right. Quite a step stronger and for the first time I had for 2 days difficulties to get used to them. My eyes worked hard, it was almost painful, but then they surrendered and I was getting used to them. I could see, that this was compared to the previous glasses now a real strong pair. There was a deep cut in beside my eyes, which seemed much smaller. “A bit more feminine again, suits you very good, Helen” wrote and teased Claire. “ I would love if you change to female for a day or two” I didn't really want that, I had beard growth now and my voice had changed. But to amuse her I spent one more day as a female. 
In this disguise I decided to visit Fanny, I had a longing to see her. She was glad to see me and told me she had missed me too She had gotten rid of her stalking ex husband and now felt much better. “But something is different with you Helen, I cant say what, your voice, your appearance?” Fanny said. I felt caught and after some remorse decided to tell her the truth. She was surprised and laughed a lot and in the end asked me to visit her with my real self. So I had an appointment next day.
She said that she now gets to know a person that's familiar and new in the same moment. We became very good friends and after 2 years she moved to the town where I was studying physics and maths to live with me and later became my wife and mother of our children.

https://vision-and-spex.com/a-hidden-wish-the-complete-story-t1895.html