---
title: "Aaron's footbll story"
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-04-04'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: "Aaron's journey through sports and vision struggles leads to a surprising selfless act for his passion."
---
In the 3rd grade Aaron started playing flag football which was made up of teams from his own school. In the 4th grade while still playing flag football Aaron started swimming and running track against other schools. When Aaron had his yearly eye exam between 4th and 5th grade he had become Myopic and was prescribed glasses. Aaron had the typical problems getting used to glasses which his Dr. had said he should wear full time due to the fact that Myopia in a kid that age meant he would need them full time in a couple of years. Aaron got the glasses and in time started wearing them as told. The only exceptions were playing football, swimming and sometimes for track. Aaron continued playing all 3 sports thru 7th grade. Aaron was now always wearing his glasses for track. Aaron's parents were very upper middle class and could afford the nicer things in life. With Aaron planning on continuing all 3 sports in the 7th grade with the football now being tackle his parents wanted to buy him both prescription swim googles and sports googles. Aaron who had felt guilty that his parents had to spend more money on his glasses then his Brother 3 years older with good vision said he didn't need them. In football Aaron was a running back who took a handoff and ran with the ball. Even though with his Myopia progression he said he could still play the sport without correction. Aaron felt like he didn't need correction for swimming and could wear his regular glasses for track. Aaron's parents wanted him to try contacts between 7th and 8th grade which he finally agreed to. Aaron's Mother who has worn contacts since age 12 said I can help you at first just as her older Brother did for her years ago. Aaron got the contacts and there were 2 problems. Aaron despite being a tough kid who worked out could not get on board with putting something in his eye. The other problem was when he finally did get contacts in he suffered from very dry eye so he and his family gave up on contacts. His parents again brought up sports googles and again he said no. By the 8th grade Aaron had given up track and swimming for his first love of football. 7th and 8th grade football went well in spite of Aaron playing without his vision correction. In May of 2017 as an incoming Freshman Aaron was allowed 2 weeks of Spring practice with what would be his new high school team. Aaron's coach seeing his speed said I would like to use you on punt and kickoff returns. Aaron had trouble seeing the ball in the practices. Aaron's coach thought it was just something that would take time to learn until he saw him leave his glasses in his Mom's car while being dropped off for practice. Aaron's coach had him try some non contact drills with his glasses to catch the ball and being a fine athlete he is he  almost never missed the ball when he could see it. Aaron's parents did not know about him wearing the glasses. The Spring practice ended and Aaron knew what he had to do. That Summer instead of having fun he helped his friend who needed help with his grass cutting. Aaron did not tell his parents he was doing this. Finally as July was coming to an end with football practice starting in a couple of weeks Aaron told his parents he thought he needed the sports googles. Aaron's parents said fine it's time for your exam anyway and we'll order them so they will be here in time for practice. Aaron then goes into his room and comes out with the $300 he made cutting grass and said will this cover the googles? Aaron's parents refused the money and since they admired his work ethic told him to spend it on video games or whatever he wanted. Aaron's parents had always insisted on buying him 2 pair of glasses every year because kids lose or break glasses which he never did. Aaron would always tell his parents he could use last years glasses as backup but they always insisted on 2 pair with different styles in case he wanted to change his look. Aaron's parents did let him pick both styles and he did sometimes enjoy changing his look, Aaron got the sports googles and became one of the stars on the Junior Varsity team along with the quarterback who had a fantastic arm. Aaron and the quarterback who come to find out was very Myopic wearing -10 contacts both starred their freshman year. Aaron and the quarterback both would have been on the varsity team if the states rules had not forbid it. Aaron was now not only playing running back, returning punts and kickoffs but was tested as receiver and played that very well with his speed. In 2018 Aaron and the quarterback now both starting on the varsity team got within 2 games of the state championship. Aaron and the quarterback both have said their goal before graduation is a state championship. Both Aaron and the quarterback have several mid major colleges keeping track of them and if their junior and senior years are as good as the last 2 years it's possible major college football programs may be calling. All this from a quarterback who wears -10 contacts and Aaron a do it all on offense who by now is up to -4 sports googles.

https://vision-and-spex.com/aaron-s-footbll-story-t1247.html