---
title: 'Bobby Was Bobbie:'
author: Specs4ever
date: '2017-06-03'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: "Two engineering students become friends, but one's changing glasses prescription leads to a surprising revelation."
---
A few years back, when I was still a naive young kid, I left the home in the small town where I had been raised and headed off to conquer the world.  My first step in this venture was to go to university and obtain my degree in environmental engineering. In my mind mankind has really been destroying the environment and something was going to have to be done or there would eventually be no more world for me to conquer.

That is how I ended up in a 2 person room at the university dormitory. My parents, in their wisdom, had suggested that it would be best if I roomed with someone for the first year, and then I would be able to find some friends the following year to rent a house with.  I was there a day before my roommate showed up and I found him to be a very pleasant, and rather good looking young man.  I really liked his glasses, as they seemed to be a little thicker than those of most other glasses wearers I had known.  He had a heavy black frame in a wayfarer style and the front of his lenses looked to be totally flat.  There was a bit of lens thickness sticking out to the rear of the frame, and when you looked at Bobby’s face head on you could see that his face was shrunk in a fair bit by the lenses.  I had been attracted to people who wore glasses for most of my life, and while I would have rather seen a female wearing these glasses I had a hard time keeping my eyes off Bobby’s glasses. 

I am no jock. I stand a little over six feet tall and weigh in at 175 lbs.  I am not as skinny as I was when I was younger, but I am still considered as being a little thin for my height. I am relatively good looking, but I really hadn’t dated very many girls as there were no girls back home that had really attracted me.  Bobby was shorter than me by about 3 inches, and he was rather thin and willowy.  Actually, if he were to wear a dress and if he had longer hair and wore a more feminine frame for his glasses he could almost have passed for a girl because he had a very soft, rather pretty, female looking face.  Bobby was also in engineering, but he was taking software engineering, which was a course I had also considered.

Bobby came from a small town in a different part of the state. He had an older brother who apparently was quite a good football player, and was attending State on a football scholarship.  His parents must have been fairly well off, because his clothing was stylish, and expensive.  He told me his mom had hoped that her second child was a girl and was more than a bit disappointed when he was born as a male.  And as I got to know Bobby better I began to wonder if Bobby actually should have been born a female.  Many of his mannerisms were those of a girl and I actually was beginning to believe that Bobby was one of those people who were born of the wrong gender.  Of course it didn’t help that he was really quite cute and as he grew his hair a bit longer than he had worn it at the beginning of the term I could totally see him as a female.

In early November Bobby had to go to see an eye doctor. Apparently his vision had deteriorated a since the beginning of the school year and his formerly -9.50D prescription had jumped by a whole diopter.  He ordered new glasses, which took almost 2 weeks to come in.  But by the time he picked up his new glasses his prescription had jumped even more, and his new glasses were not nearly strong enough.  He went back to the same eye doctor who was rather shocked that in only a 3 week period Bobby had required a further diopter increase.  Bobby couldn’t leave his new glasses at the optician’s to have new lenses put in them, but he didn’t want to have new, even thicker,  lenses put in his old wayfarer frames either. So he ordered another new frame and lenses combination. Now his prescription was right around -12.50D and again when his new glasses arrived his new glasses were already a little too weak for him.  I had done a bit of reading about myopia and how it progressed so I knew that there was something totally wrong here. It was very unusual for someone over the age of 18 to have more than a -2.00D jump in only 2 months. 

Bobby wore fairly loose clothing most of the time.  I had never seen him naked, not had I ever seen him walking around the room without his t-shirt on.  But one day, while he was going through his period of severe myopic progression, I noticed that he had on a tighter t-shirt than he normally wore and he seemed to have much larger breasts than I had previously noticed.  That got me thinking.  Was it possible that Bobby was taking female hormones?  Did Bobby really want to become a female?  I had read that an excess of female hormones would sometimes cause a person’s myopia to increase rapidly and substantially while they did their job of changing a males appearance into that of a female.

Now I had a bit of a dilemma. What did I think of this? I had always looked at Bobby as being a male. I had grown up in a small town where this sort of thing was something to be ashamed of.  The only gay male I had known was a young Chinese boy who was constantly teased and was bullied terribly.  He had been fortunate to escape from our small minded town when his parents sold their restaurant and they moved to the city, but I could have easily imagined him committing suicide if he had to put up with being tormented much longer. 

I decided that I needed to talk this over with Bobby.  I didn’t like the idea of sharing a dorm room with a transgendered person, but it didn’t scare me so much that I was going to request a change in rooms.  I figured that as long as Bobby kept to himself I wasn’t going to be too judgmental about what he was doing. It was his future, and if he needed to become a girl to make it through the rest of his life then I wasn’t going to make it any harder on him to do this than any other good friend would.

I brought the subject up and I think Bobby’s first reaction was to deny that this was what he was doing. But I managed to tell him that it wasn’t going to bother me no matter what he told me and finally he told me what I had suspected.  He had begun taking the female hormones before he even moved into the dorm with me and he had hoped that he would be able to keep it a secret at least until the end of the year.  He seemed quite surprised that I accepted what he was doing as righting a wrong from birth, and he was actually shocked that I had felt that his gender identity was wrong almost from the time I had met him.  He opened up to me and discussed his plans to have the sex change operation during the coming summer and when I suggested that since he would never have another chance, maybe he should consider storing some of his sperm in a sperm bank since he would never be able to bear a child but he and his future partner could both have their sperm injected into a surrogate mother. He thought that was a great idea and within a few weeks he had some sperm stored for future use.

The female hormones Bobby was taking continued to play havoc with his already substantial myopia. There had been no increase during the first couple of months that he had been taking the female hormone therapy, but obviously during October they had begun to affect his eyesight.   His new glasses that he had been prescribed in early November had already been too weak for him by the time they had come in.  He had gone back to complain a week or so later and had been prescribed glasses that were -12.50D and when they arrived he noticed that they were already almost too weak. He didn’t know what to do. I suggested that if he went back to see the same eye doctor who had prescribed him the last two increases the eye doctor might realize what he was doing, and Bobby didn’t want to have that happen.  Because of that he was receptive to my suggestion that we could go online and order him some new glasses from an online optical store.

I had figured that Bobby’s prescription increases were between -1.00 and -1.50D each month. I wasn’t sure if this was going to continue at this pace until he stopped taking the female hormones, nor was I sure that it would ever stop.  But I was sure that he needed to do something or else he was going to be going around in a blur for the rest of the year if he kept ordering glasses according to what an eye doctor determined his prescription was.

“If we order them online it’s going to take 3 weeks for the glasses to come in. We are going to have to do something different here so that you aren’t struggling to see for the rest of the year.” I said.

“What do you suggest Alex?” Bobby asked.

“You just got those glasses and they are already not strong enough. They probably should have been at least -13D.  It is going to take another 3 weeks to order some new ones so we should first figure out how strong your prescription will likely be in another 3 weeks. I am thinking that you might be almost as high as -14D by then. So the minimum prescription we should order first needs to be -14D or maybe even -14.50D. Then we should order 2 more pairs, with each pair being about -1.50D stronger.” I replied.

“But that would mean that in another 3 months I could be wearing -17.50D glasses.” Bobby protested.

“You could be, but only if you need them. I am just suggesting this as a way for you to be able to handle the vision deterioration that the female growth hormones seem to be effecting you.  If you don’t need the stronger glasses then you don’t need to ever wear them. If you do it sure would be nice to have them when you need them.” I responded.

Bobby eventually came around to my way of thinking. When I ordered his 3 pairs of glasses I ordered the first pair using a prescription of OD -17.50 x -1.50 x 88 and OS -17.25 x -1.75 x 96.  I put a +3.00D add in the box for add, and I made a notation that these were to be made as single vision glasses for distance only.  Then, using the same unisex frame choice, I ordered the next pair exactly -1.50D less for the spherical and in the remarks I said these were to be single vision lenses for mid-range use.  The third pair was again another -1.50D lower spherical power, and I specified for this pair that they were to be single vision lenses for reading only.  When I placed the order I increased Bobby’s age to that of a 52 year old man so the need for trifocal’s would not be that unusual, and I made sure that in the overall remarks I stated that the stronger glasses were for distance and the other two pairs were for computer use and reading respectively.  They would not be delivered until after we returned from Christmas break and I was pretty sure that Bobby would be very happy to have all 3 pairs by then as his eyes seemed to be getting a little worse almost weekly.

Bobby had chosen a frame that was very common to be seen on a female, although plenty of males also chose this frame.  I had, when he chose the frame, wondered if he was going to try to make his transition to dressing like a female during this term, but I decided that this would be impossible because we were on a guy’s floor of the dorm.  I arrived back at the dorm a day before Bobby did, and the package containing the 3 pairs of glasses was waiting for us.  I know it was Bobby’s package to open and it was his money that had paid for them, but I could not resist opening the package and inspecting the three pairs of glasses. They looked fantastic. The reading pair was the perfect thickness with lots of power rings.  The next pair looked to be even thicker – as they were supposed to be.  But they had to shave a little off the outer edges of the lenses to allow the temples to fold closed, and I liked the appearance of the first pair better. The third pair had been ordered with an even higher index lens, and they were not shaved off at all, but were around the same thickness as the -14.50D pair.  They also looked quite nice.  I was sure Bobby was going to be thrilled. But first, before he got here, I had to take these three pairs of glasses to my room and masturbate while wearing them.  I had never had this reaction over a pair of glasses before but I had a feeling that this was going to be a common occurrence from now on.  I was really sexually aroused by these three pairs of strong glasses and I now wondered how I would feel when I saw Bobby wearing them..

I didn’t have to wonder for long.  Bobby returned before noon the next day, and the first thing he did was grab the -14D glasses and put them on.  He looked around and told me that they were great.   He asked me how he looked in them and I honestly told him that he looked good enough to f..k. He looked at me a little strangely but then said sure, and we went off to his room where he massaged my penis and made me come.  It wasn’t hard as I was looking at him wearing those perfect glasses and he looked just like a woman with his long loose hair hanging around his feminine looking face.

Bobby had spoken with his parents over the Christmas holidays and told them that he wanted to trans into a female.  His dad had taken it harder than his mother had but in truth his father had always realized that Bobby was more like a girl than a boy so he finally came around and told Bobby that he would support the sex change financially.  Bobby had contacted a doctor that specialized in doing this, and had an appointment set up for an initial consultation within a few days.

I wondered how Bobby was going to break the news to his classmates, but I had not realized how far in advance he had been thinking.  All during the fall term he had been attending class looking as much like a female as he possibly could, and at the beginning of the term he had even registered as Roberta.  Once he had left the dorm in the morning he would slip into a unisex restroom and he would apply a bit of makeup and do his hair up into either a ponytail or a bun.  Sometimes he would even take a dress with him and he would change into it.  But now that I was aware of what was going on he would do his hair and apply his makeup before he left the dorm.  He still had to be careful that he didn’t get caught leaving our floor and now I often went out to see if the hall was clear before he stepped out and headed for the stairs that were right by our room. He would run down one flight and then he would often catch the elevator from there as it was a girl’s floor. This subterfuge continued quite successfully for the rest of the school year.

Bobby managed to make it through until the end of February before he had to change to the next pair of glasses. I had not liked the -16.00D pair as much when I had first seen them because of the slight myodisc effect, but once Bobby started to wear them I thought they looked just great on his face.  He gave me the old pair of -14.50D ones and sometimes when he wasn’t around to help me out I would wear them to masturbate by myself.  I didn’t know what it was about a strong pair of minus glasses that aroused me so much, but they sure did.

Bobby and I spent quite a bit of time in bed together.  He was becoming more feminine almost daily. The female hormones had done their job quite nicely and he now had a small, but perky set of breasts, which he often exaggerated with a padded bra that made him look even more like a woman.  Sometimes we went out to bars together and we even danced together. I was getting to like Bobby as a partner more and more all the time.

By early May Bobby had to change to the -17.50D glasses.   He now wanted me to order him an even stronger pair as he wanted to continue taking the female growth hormones for a while longer as the deterioration in his vision seemed to be continuing, and likely would for as long as he took the hormones.  We sat down together and this time Bobby selected a frame that was definitely a female frame. There would be no question of his sex when he wore them, but that would be fine as the sex change operation was scheduled for mid June and by the time he needed to wear these glasses Bobby likely would be a woman in all aspects.

Bobby wanted the new glasses to last well after he had the sex change.  Once the sex change was done then he would be able to stop the female hormones and the deterioration in his vision would probably continue for a while after he stopped taking the hormones. After discussing this with him for a few days I ordered his new glasses. He chose frame style 188835, which was a cat’s eye frame with a reddish tortoise shell front and red temples. The cost with the 1.74 hi index lenses was a quite reasonable $117.86 for the prescription that Bobby wanted me to order.  I thought that OD -19.50 x -1.50 x 88 and OS -19.25 x -1.75 x 96 was possibly a little strong for him but he was quite adamant that he wanted a full -2.00D stronger than his existing prescription so I sent in the order for him.

The glasses arrived just before we were about to move out of the dorm.  Bobby tried them on, but they were still too strong for him, although they looked perfect on his face.  Now I could hardly wait for him to have the sex change operation so that we could have sex acting like a normal male and female.  I knew this was going to happen eventually, because we were taking an apartment together for the following year, and I could see our relationship continuing for the rest of our university days, and maybe longer.

I was heading to my parents’ home for the summer but I did come back into the city to see Bobby right after he had the sex change operation. He came through it very well, and he was now a woman with no more male external parts.  Of course they are unable to completely change a male into a female, and Bobby would always be like a woman who had required a hysterectomy.  Bobby could never have children, as the internal parts were not possible for the medical community to transplant at this time.

Bobby stayed at our new apartment for the summer. It took him a while to recover from the operation and he didn’t do too much other than read and study. He did tell me that he had started to wear his new glasses sometime in August, and when I came back to the city in early September he had been wearing them full time for almost a month. He said they were a little bit strong still, but he could easily focus through the lenses and he liked his appearance wearing them so much that he really wanted to wear them even though I had warned him not to do so until he really needed them. What I had warned him about was that his eyes would adapt to the stronger lenses as soon as he started wearing them, and while I liked seeing him with them on I was worried that his prescription would jump even higher if he wore them too soon. But he didn’t care, and since I also quite liked seeing him wearing them I wasn’t going to suggest that he wore his weaker pair.  Anyway, he gave me his old, weaker pair so I now had a collection of 6 of his old pairs of glasses.

Bobby was now Bobbie in all aspects. He also had breast implants after the sex change operation, and had Botox injections in his neck to fatten up the area around his Adams apple. They had also operated to soften his Adams apple a little and it no longer looked as pronounced as a man’s.  Bobbie was definitely now a she.

Bobbie had always had a very feminine body and now with her enhanced breasts she really looked quite good.  She wore jeans that fit her like a glove, and when she put on a tight t shirt and her high heels she absolutely looked like a very attractive young lady.  I had no problem escorting her anywhere she wanted to go, and as she walked down the street I could tell that a lot of guys were scoping her out.  Her very strong glasses that she wore only added to her sex appeal for me.  If only the guys that were looking at her knew what I knew.

Once Bobbie stopped taking the female growth hormones her myopic progression slowed down considerably.  She had to get new glasses during the spring of the first year that we lived together and since she had not had a proper eye exam for a while I suggested that one might be in order. She went to see an optometrist who advertised that their specialty was high myopia and she came away with a referral to an ophthalmologist for a complete retinal exam and an examination of the inside of her eyes.  He did however write her a new prescription for glasses and her new prescription was to be OD -21.00 x -2.00 x 90 and OS -21.00 x -2.50 x 92.  She had required another significant jump in both her spherical and her astigmatism, but I suspected that this might be the last big one.

The visit to the ophthalmologist didn’t find any serious problems. Bobbie’s retinas were stretched pretty thin and he wanted her to have a full exam every year. The following year we went back to the optometrist again, and he found that Bobbie only needed a little more minus added to her prescription. I felt that Bobbie could likely wait another year to see if the female growth hormones had finally finished affecting her eyesight, but Bobbie wanted to have the -0.50D increase and another new pair of glasses. I really didn’t complain because I quite liked looking at Bobbie wearing her new myodiscs every time we made love.

Bobby and I spent the next 3 years sleeping together and having tons and tons of sex.  Once Bobbie got the female parts and we could do it like a man and a woman it seemed that neither of us could get enough of each other.  Bobbie had become a real woman, and I wasn’t sure I could keep up with her.  She was head of her class, and in our last year of university she had been wined and dined by some big name companies. She was seriously considering accepting one of the offers and moving to San Francisco. Unfortunately I wasn’t going to be able to accompany her as my mom was quite ill and I needed to stay closer to home. I was fortunate in that I found a job in the environmental field in the same city we had gone to university, and with a car I was only 2 hours away from my mom. I even kept the same apartment I had shared with Bobbie.

For a while after she moved Bobbie would fly back to see me, as well as her parents once a month.  I could tell thought that something was different between us and just before Christmas when we exchanged our gifts before heading to our parents homes I asked Bobbie if there was someone else in her life.  She admitted to me that there was, and I wished her luck in her new relationship. 

I wasn’t as disappointed in this news as I might have been otherwise.  There was a girl at my new firm that I was quite interested in.  You might have guessed that she was a glasses wearer, and while her prescription was not nearly as strong as Bobbie’s was I was sure that it was still a respectable minus prescription and was somewhere between -12D and -14D

When I got back after Christmas with my family I saw that Bobbie had already been there and had removed everything of hers that had been left behind. On the kitchen table was her key to the apartment and a glasses case. When I opened it I found the pair of glasses that she had been wearing when she moved to San Francisco.  Bobbie had given me all of her old glasses to keep and the note that she left with them was that these would be the last pair I would get because she had found the guy she wanted to marry.  I knew I would miss having her in my life, but I hoped that her new boyfriend would be able to accept the fact that Bobbie had once been Bobby and that she would be happy forever.

Specs4ever
June 2016

https://vision-and-spex.com/bobby-was-bobbie-t881.html