---
title: "Chrissy's Story   Part 2"
author: soundmanpt
date: '2018-06-29'
categories:
  - soundmanpt
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: "Chrissy's perfect life takes a turn when she catches her boyfriend cheating - chaos ensues."
---
So as the coming days and weeks went by everything seemed great for Chrissy. Her eyesight with her glasses on was completely perfect by now and she now needed her glasses to see clearly. Her once perfect eyesight was now  gone as her eyesight had rather quickly deteriorated. Now that she was wearing glasses full time she told her mom when she called home that she was having trouble with seeing things in the distance so she went for an eye exam and she was prescribed glasses which she has to wear all the time. Her glasses were now a permanent part of her looks. But even wearing glasses she was still every bit as attractive as ever. More importantly for her she felt like she was in love with the perfect guy and thought that he was in love with her as well. After all why shouldn't he be? He had a thing for attractive women wearing glasses and now that Chrissy was wearing glasses she was one of them. But it wasn't long until Chrissy was noticing that Tom was once again being easily distracted by any attractive young woman wearing glasses that walked past him. This didn't please Chrissy very much since she wanted to be the only woman he was looking at. She even wrecked her perfect eyesight so she could wear glasses just to please him. Now he was starting to be more and more busy on weekends with business trips and meetings. One of those weekends Chrissy had decided that instead of staying in her dorm room she would go to a bar a good distance away in another town that had line dancing. She hadn't been line dancing since she started wearing glasses. So she got in her car and drove the 37 miles to a place called Smokey's. She went in and found a table in the back of the room and sat down to watch for a few minutes. Suddenly she thought she saw Tom across the room.  Whoever it was disappeared as she kept looking in that direction. She told herself it couldn't be Tom because he was at a convention out of town. Suddenly as she continued to look she couldn't believe her eyes. It was Tom and he was dancing with an attractive young woman wearing glasses of course. Chrissy isn't the violent type at all. So far her to get mad takes a lot. But seeing her boyfriend that was supposed to be at a convention dancing with another woman hit her boiling point. She jumped to her feet and headed straight across the dance floor towards him. When he saw Chrissy he knew he was in big trouble and started backing away. Chrissy pushed him as hard as she could. She was yelling at him about being a cheater. The girl he was dancing with decided to come to Tom's defense and pushed Chrissy backwards. So Chrissy returned the push to her. Now the other girl came at Chrissy swinging her fists like crazy. Lucky for Chrissy all the swings missed and Chrissy had her hands up tying to block her swings. One swing managed to hit Chrissy on the side of her face knocking her glasses off. That really made Chrissy mad and she soon had the other girl down and was getting some good hits in on her and Chrissy ended by grabbing her glasses and ripping them off her face and she threw them across the dance floor. By now bouncers were grabbing both girls and leading the in different directions. When Chrissy looked around she coldn't see very well without her glasses but she was able to see well enough to see that Tom no where in sight. His dancing partner was still their so he left her behind. Chrissy wanted to leave but couldn't until she got her glasses back and she was hoping they were okay and not broken. She asked one of the bar servers if anyone saw where her went? A few minutes later a guy came over and handed her her glasses. Chrissy looked at them and was happy to see they seemed to be fine. As she put them on the guy that brought her glasses to her said "Chrissy Thompson is that you?" She looked up at him and she recognized him as a boy that went to high school with her. He was a senior when she was a junior. He had asked her out once and and she would have gone out with him if she didn't already have a date. She told him she had a date but would love to go out with him another time. He never asked her again. She was surprised to see someone she knew from high school so far away from home like her. She felt really embarrassed seeing someone she knows while she was involved in a fight. Anyway he reminded her that his name was Joe. Chrissy actually did remember his name because she really would have gone out with him if she didn't already have a date because she thought he was cute. They were talking when the bouncer came over and told Chrissy that she had to leave because of the fight. So Joe and Chrissy went out together to the parking lot. They sat on the tailgate of Joe's pickup truck and talked for awhile about their high school days. Joe asked her what the fight was all about? Chrissy told him about Tom and how he lied to her about going to a convention. She told Joe that she didn't have any issue with the other girl at all. It was just her defending Tom for some reason. Joe asked Chrissy when she started wearing glasses because her didn't remember her wearing glasses in high school. She smiled and took her glasses off as she answered him that she only recently started needing glasses. Joe told her that she looked great with or without glasses. She told him that now she is mostly only going to be seen wearing glasses because without them everything is pretty blurry. Joe asked her if she gets home very often and she told him that she was home for Christmas break but not since. She told him that she hadn't gotten her glasses when she was home at Christmas. So she told her mom that she now wears glasses but they haven't seen her wearing glasses yet. She said her mom told her that the school was planning on having a celebration for the girls softball team in which Chrissy was a star player come back and play the facility in a softball game for charity. The girls team came in 2 place in the state finals in her senior year. Unless her mom told someone I think they will be surprised to see me wearing glasses now. I haven't even touched a softball since school finished and now that i'm wearing glasses i'm not sure how I would feel about playing shortstop wearing glasses now. That could be risky for sure if a ball took a bad bounce and hit my glasses. And I surely can't see well enough to play without them now. Maybe I will just make some excuse not to go home that weekend. It wasn't so bad getting glasses when you're away from home and kn ow one knows you but it will be very difficult going home and seeing all my old school friends wearing glasses. I'm going to get asked by everyone "when did you get glasses" Joe popped up and said like I just asked you? Yeah but being asked by one person is fine but when you get asked by a lot of people that's much harder after a while. 
Joe and Chrissy got along really well and they were soon dating. Chrissy never has told Joe how or why she really started wearing glasses. Some things are better left alone. Chrissy did go home for the benefit softball game and that was the first time her mom and dad saw her wearing glasses. They hugged her and simply told her that she looked beautiful wearing glasses.  Chrissy was surprised that when she went for practice with her team for the softball game several other players had also gotten glasses since she last saw them. That made Chrissy feel so much better not being the only glasses wearer. She played great and made several good plays on the field and had 2 hits as well. Chrissy still has the other 2 pairs of glasses that Diane gave her. Chrissy has wore the 2nd pair of glasses a few times for fun and now they don't seem near as strong as they before when she first started wearing glasses. She is thinking about making them her next full time glasses when summer break is over. Chrissy says she feels much more confident as a glasses wearer than she did before she had glasses.  By the way lets not forget about Diane. It seems that their is a story to be told there as well. Coming soon!

https://vision-and-spex.com/chrissy-s-story-part-2-t980.html