---
title: "Craig and  Joan's story."
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-09-13'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: High school sweethearts discover their mutual crushes, but their relationship takes an unexpected turn when glasses come into play.
---
This story is fiction but from what I've read in various forms it happens quite regularly. In 1997 Joan and Craig wound up high school sweethearts in Corydon Indiana about 25 miles West of Louisville. The unusual thing is Joan was almost 18 months older and a junior that year while Craig was a sophomore. Joan had to start school basically a year late because her birthday is one day after the cutoff for starting school at 6 years old. Craig with an earlier birthday was able to start school just before he turned 6 years old. The odd thing is being neighbors they both secretly had crushes on each other but neither thought the other one would be interested due to the age difference. Joan actually confessed to Craig's Sister that she had a crush on him for a while now. Craig's Sister told Joan he has told me he has a crush on you but didn't think you would be interested so go ahead and make your move. Joan at a neighborhood party confessed her felling to Craig and he told her he had the same feelings. The two soon became and item as they started dating going out to eat and some sporting events and a movie or 2. Joan who got her driver's license as soon as she could at 16 years old and 3 months by taking drivers education from a  private school as most high schools by that time had dropped the program due to costs. Two reasons Joan an only child who wasn't interested in driving at first got her license is here parents busy schedule and being active in some after school activities she could get there easier and Corydon a fairly small town does not have anything in the way of public transportation. Both Joan and Craig have had eye exams by and Optometrist every 2 years since staring school. From the first exam Joan showed 20/20 in both eyes and Craig showed either 20/25 or 20/30 in both eyes which his Optometrist is not bad enough for glasses. Just before turning 14 Craig was told if his vision stayed the same in 2 years he would be prescribed glasses for night driving if he planned on getting his license which he did. Craig who turned 15 in the Summer of 96 before starting his sophomore year was enrolled in the same private driving school Joan had used. At 15 in Indiana you can get a permit restricted to drivers ed.  taking the vision screening and the knowledge test. Craig after scoring 100% on the knowledge test failed the vision screening. Craig had an eye exam and was prescribed glasses with a 1.50 R and 1.75 L. Craig got his glasses and passed the vision screening at the BMV with them.  The high school Craig went to had a policy change for his sophomore year. During his freshman year the school had a strict policy of seating students by the first letter of their last name. New leadership had removed the policy and in fact forbid it. They felt it wasn't fair to the students with names starting in the later part of alphabet. Craig's last name is Abel to he sat near the front of his classes the previous year. Craig noticed on the first day of school when he choose to sit in the back he had to squint to see the board as he had not taken his glasses that day. Craig started wearing his glasses to school and when going to movies or sporting events usually with Joan. A funny thing happened one day early in the school year while Craig and Joan prepared to go to a football game at the high school. Craig had laid his glasses on the coffee table while going in the bathroom to comb his hair. Joan jokingly picked up the glasses and didn't expect to see anything out of them as when trying friends on she had not been able to see. Joan was surprised when she could see out of her right eye real well with the lift one a little blurry. Joan told her parents after that she thought she needed an eye exam and one was scheduled. Sure enough Joan's eye's had gradually changed and she was prescribed glasses of -1.25 R and 1.00 L. Joan who to this day is good looking was completely ok with wearing glasses although her Mom wanted her to try contacts. Joan who had seen several friends struggle with contacts said no way. Joan almost from day one of getting glasses wears them all the time while her Mom every so often brings up contacts which she says not way. Craig eases into wearing glassed and by the end of his sophomore year is now wearing his all the time as well. Craig has to wait until he turns 16 and 270 days which happens during his junior and he too gets his license and a car. After Joan's graduates high school she works part time and takes a 2 year program at a nearby college. The next year Craig graduates high school and having taken vocational training at Prosser Vocational School in New Albany gets a job in his chosen field. Joan and Craig continue seeing each other and after she completes her 2 year program goes to work and as planned the couple gets married in 2001. Craig had graduated high school in 1999 and Joan in 1998. The couple is gifted the down payment on a house and starts married life. The couple today has a Son 14 and a Daughter 12. The Son is Myopic while the Daughter still has 20/20 vision. What used to confuse Joan and Craig is the Son who is a -2.50 R and -2 L takes his glasses off to read or look at his phone. This continued until the Optometrist told them that was ok. The Son briefly tried Contacts last year but decided they were not for him.

https://vision-and-spex.com/craig-and-joan-s-story-t1427.html