---
title: "Davey's eye exam"
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-10-15'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: In a small town haunted by tragedy, Davey overcomes adversity and fights for a brighter future.
---
Now 18 year old high school senior Davey lives in Williams Indiana. Davey was named after his Dad's favorite NASCAR driver Davey Allison who was tragically killed while attempting to land his new helicopter at the Tallageda Speedway in 1993. In fact Davey's middle name is Clifford after Davey's Brother who was killed in 1992 at the Michigan Speedway in practice for an ARCA race.
Williams Indiana is a very small town in Lawrence county about 10 miles from Bedford and probably 30 miles from Bloomington. Williams sits directly on the White River and if you google the town I'm sure it will be noted there is a dam.
Davey's Dad is now general manager at a large car dealership in Bedford but there are still some of his regular customers that will only buy their new cars from him. Tragically Davey's Mom and  1 year old Sister were killed in a car wreck on highway 37 between Mitchell and Bedford while returning home from a visit with her parents. Davey who was 6 at time having just started 1st grade was badly injured when a car that was under recall for a sticking throttle hit them. Davey missed that whole year of school so that is why he will be 19 before graduating high school not that he was held back a year as some people think. If you see the car which was a brand not from where Davey's Dad works you would wonder how anybody survived. Davey still has problems with his leg on rainy or damp days limping some.
Davey and his Dad both got huge settlements form the manufacture of the car. Since Davey was a minor when the settlement was reached (the only person in the other car was killed and his family got the same type of settlement) his Dad was put in charge of the trust. Davey's Dad has always felt guilty about the wreck because he didn't go with his family. The wreck happened on Sunday and by law Indiana car dealerships can't sell cars that day. As general manager Davey's Dad could go to the dealership that day and catch up on paperwork without interruption and that is what he was doing. Davey's Mom's parents stood by his Dad telling him it's not your fault and a GM has a big responsibility which is true. Both Davey's Mom's parents and his Dad's Mom who was his only living parent helped with Davey's care until he was in school or old enough to stay by himself which happened at about age 11 for all day in the summer. Davey mature for is age could handle himself and almost never got in trouble.
Davey who was 16 by the end of his freshman year of high school any time he had to take the bus had a 45 minute to an hour ride each way depending on traffic. Whenever they could his Dad or Grandma who lives in Williams took and picked him up from school. Davey's Grandma was getting up in years and didn't drive as much as  she used to and never at night so in the parts of the year it was still dark if his Dad couldn't take him which he often did Davey would have to take the bus.
Davey never complained about this and his grades stayed good. Davey made mostly A and B's but a few C's in some hard algebra type classes. Davey who made the honor roll a few times only made one hotly disputede grade lower than a C and that was a D in freshman gym class. Davey with his bad leg could not run a distance in the allotted time and the teacher had said from the start that no student with a  time over that would get a D regardless of what else they do. A classmate on the Bedford high school paper wanted to run a story about how unfair that was but of course the school quashed it. The classmate then called the local paper who offered to run a stroy but both Davey and his Dad said no.
Davey's Dad was determined his long bus rides would end at the start of his sophomore year. Davey about 2 weeks before school started for that year would be old enough to get his drivers license with drivers ed. so his Dad looked for a school in or around Bedford. The closest one he found was in Clarksville Indiana about 70 miles away. Davey's Grandparents on his Mom's side had moved from Salem to Sellersburg which is a short drive to Clarksville. The summer after his freshman year Davey with permit in hand stayed with them during the week while taking the course. Davey passed the course with flying colors and his Dad who rarely takes off work did so to allow Davey to take his test for his license. Davey easily passed all 3 portions of the test those being the written, vision screening and in car tests and of course his Dad got him a good gently used car to drive to school and other places.
One problem came up early in his sophomore year after Davey's Grandma had to go into assisted living. Davey's Dad was going to a meeting for dealer managers and would be out of town for a few days. Finally when some neighbors offered any help needed Davey could stay home by himself and did fine and did not need any help. 
Davey completes his junior year again not missing any days or being late. In fact since the time (almost a whole year) missed from the accident Davey had not missed or been late for a day of school. Just after his junior year ended one if Davey's Dad's regular customers who traded cars about every 3 years came in to trade. Davey's Dad now age 44 pulls out a pair of OTC readers to do the paperwork. The man who Davey's Dad does not know what he does for a living since he pays cash and no credit check is required asks when was the last time you had an eye exam? Davey's Dad responds about 20 years ago mainly because he hates dilation. The man then says I'm an Optometrist but I don't go by Dr. except at the office and everywhere else to anybody any age I'm just Don. Don then explains that his office has retinal imaging and doesn't use dilation anymore. Don then explains that anybody Davey's Dad's age needs an eye exam about every 2 years just to check for glaucoma and other diseases of the eye. Don then asks when was the last time Davey had an exam? When told age 11 Don says it wouldn't hurt to get Davey in just for a checkup. Davey's Dad who can slip away from work for an hour for the exam says I'll have to figure when I can bring him in. Don explains as long as I have your permission Davey can drive himself in. Davey's Dad schedules his own exam and says if Davey thinks he needs one I'll have him come in. Don looks up Davey's record from 6 years ago and his eyes were good with some very minor Astigmatism but not bad enough for glasses. Davey's Dad has his exam of course showing Presobya and slight Astigmatism which it's said almost everybody has some degree of. Davey's Dad who complained about having to take the OTC readers off to see far away is prescribed either bifocals or progressive and chooses the latter.
Davey's Dad or had not told him or anybody else about the eye exam until he starts wearing the glasses around the house and watching TV in them which he couldn't do with the OTC's. This happened in June of 2018 just after school was out for the year. Davey's Dad is getting ready to ask him if he thinks he needs an eye exam when he gets a surprise. Davey asks how about getting me an eye exam. Davey's reason for asking for an exam had nothing to do with the way he sees but a classmate was now being treated for pre glaucoma with eye drops. Luckily the student who does not wear or need glasses has had a yearly eye exam and it was caught early before any damage was done.
Davey's Dad tells him to call and schedule your exam and I don't have to be with you. In the past his Grandma now in assisted living had taken him to most of his doctors appointments. Davey's Astigmatism had gotten a little worse in the last 6 years. Davey's distance vision is still a strong 20/20 but he asks could glasses for Astigmatism help with some headaches I've been having if I read or am on the computer too much? Don or the Dr. replies yes and says your eye health is good. Don asks if you have any problems or questions? The roads between Williams and Bedford are dark and not well lit at night. Davey says even with good vision it seems hard to see on these roads at night. Don then prescribes Davey a -50 in each eye and the Astigmatism correction. Davey is concerned that wearing glasses will make his distance vision go bad and Don explains that is not the case citing his own daughters. The older one got glasses for mild Myopia at age 13 and wore them all the time and now at age 24 her prescription has not changed. The younger one got glasses for the same reason at age 12 and almost never wore them until about 3 years later when her Myopia progressed to the point where she had no choice. Davey had not told anybody including his Dad about the headaches just taking a Tyelnol once in a while.
In the first part of July Davey gets his glasses and reads a lot that summer with them and doesn't get one headache. Davey tells his Dad the glasses really seem to help with both things Don Said they would. Davey wears his glasses most of the time with one exception being when driving in sunny weather he wears good polarized non prescription sunglasses. It is while wearing the sunglasses Davey runs into a problem. In August before school started Davey drove to Sellersburg to visit his Grandparents a trip which he had made several times before with no problem. Davey has to go thru Borden Indiana a small town that is notorious for speed traps. The towns police in cooperation with state police were dong a DUI checkpoint. (Ok this story is fantasy but if you ever find yourself going thru Borden in Clark county Indiana do the speed limit.) This happens on a Friday evening when the sun sets late and Davey is wearing his sunglasses but his regular ones are laying on the seat beside him. The officer checks Davey's license, registration and proof of insurance and all is in order and Davey is not old enough to drink an can't stand the smell anyway. The state police officer starts to wave Davey on when the Borden officer says hold it a minute and you need to pull over there. Davey cooperates and does as asked. The Borden officer questions Davey about the prescription glasses and he explains that he only has to wear them for reading or night driving. The Borden officer writes Davey what amounts to a fix it ticket where a not from an eye care professional is required. The note is no problem but the kicker is the $74 in court costs. Davey decides to go into the Subway in Borden for a sandwich. The state police officer who started to wave him on comes in and tells Davey the officer is being a jerk and ther is nothing he can do about it. The town is money hungry.  Davey's Dad wants to fight the ticket but Davey says lets just pay the money and if I go thru that town again wearing sunglasses I will put the other glasses in the glove compartment. Davey is still going for perfect attendance for 12 years and fighting the ticket could mean missing school and his Dad agrees. The school system has agreed not to count Davey barley starting 1st grade when the accident happened. It took Davey a while before he took this route because he has to go past the scene of the accident. The reason Davey started taking this route was the other way even though that is what most GPS shows is much longer.
Davey starts school and his classmates are surprised to see him wearing glasses. Davey explains the glasses help with headaches and night driving even though he has good distance vision. Davey wears his glasses and any time when driving at night and most other times except when driving in sunlight. Some of his classmates who must wear glasses while driving are in a good way jealous of Davey geing able to wear regular sunglasses while driving.

https://vision-and-spex.com/davey-s-eye-exam-t1482.html