---
title: "Donna's one day ordeal"
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-12-06'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: In this gripping tale, fraternal twins Clint and Donna's lives take a dark turn when Donna is abducted, setting off a thrilling investigation.
---
This story is fantasy but I do take some ideas from true crime shows such as the ones of Investigation Discovery channel.
In mid may of this year 18 year old fraternal twins Donna and Clint were  done with their senior year of high school and both were planning on going to college. Dad John is the general manager of as the game shows would say a major engine and transmission remanufacturing plant in town. Mom Eunice two resumed practicing law after stopping to raise her kids. Eunice only resumed practicing law once her only two kids were 16 and not from needing money. In addition to John's good salary they had inherited some money from her family setting up trust funds for the kids and paying in advance for their college education.
Clint and Donna are like a lot of fraternal twins being mirror images of each other. Two examples are Clint is left handed while Donna is right handed. Donna is slightly Hyperopic and only wears her glasses while on the computer or reading. Clint is moderately Myopic and wears his -2.50 and- 2.75 glasses full time. Clint does have contacts which he wears rarely despite the fact his Mom prefers him in them. The only reason Clint got contacts is being tall for his age he played basketball on the freshman team. Clint who didn't get much playing time decided not play ball after that year but at his Mom's insistence gets new contacts at every eye exam.
Donna and Clint who both got cars for their 16th birthdays and got their drivers license as soon as possible. While Donna was excited about getting her license Clint didn't seem interested. Clint did realize with all the activities he's involved in a license would be helpful. Clint and Donna both had to meet their Dad's conditions for getting drivers licenses. Grades were not a problem as both are great students but John insisted they both learn to drive a manual transmission car. Both were taught manual on a 4 wheeler on the families rural property which had the same setup as a manual car. John insisted on the manual transmission provision after he as a teenager after getting his license was with his Dad who recently passed away when the older man sprained his left ankle and was unable to drive home. They let the air out of 2 tires and had AAA tow the car home. After using the home air compressor to air the tires up Johns Mom taught him manual that same day. That was the day John vowed if he ever had kids they would have to be able to drive manual before getting a drivers license.
Donna's ordeal started on a Monday in mid may. School had ended for seniors the previous Friday but both were planning on going to a seminar on living on your own in college if Clint felt up to it. About a week ago in a pickup basketball game Clint sprained his right wrist. The Doctor laughingly told Clint not to drive a manual transmission car saying it's not like you can anyway. Clint was furious but said nothing. For the last week Clint and Donna had swapped cars as his is manual and hers is automatic. Clint around 8am was soaking his wrist in the whirlpool in his parents bathtub when while getting out he heard a noise. Clint ran to look out the window and since he wasn't wearing glasses or contacts couldn't see too clearly. Clint thought he saw Donna and her boyfriend Jamie arguing but by the time he got his glasses on nobody was around. Clint went to the garage he shared with Donna and both cars were there. About this time Jamie drives up and Clint notices he is not wearing the color clothes he saw so the two decide to call 911. Clint on the landline makes the emergency call while Jamie takes Clint's phone and calls both parents. Since it takes the police some time to get to the rural home Clint pulls up the video from the extensive camera system on the property and notices a 30ish man pulling Donna away into an older Pontiac Firebird Trans Am like the one in the movie Smokey and the Bandit. Clint a big true crime fan knows the police will look close to home first and this video clears him, Jamie and his parents. The video is good reading the license # of the car. The police and parents arrive at almost the same time and the towns police call in the state police. The police view the video and put out an all APB on the car. One police officer is almost positive the abductor is a man recently released from prison for bank robbery. The officer tries to reassure the family as this man has never hurt anyone.
Meanwhile Donna is being driven west on I-64 towards Louisville. The abductor who is the man the police officer thought by the car coming back registered to him. The abductor says his name is Chuck Jones but his real name is Bryce Jennings. Donna who had her glasses on when abducted due to texting Jamie has them and her phone taken by the Chuck/Bryce. AS the ride started Bryce tells Donna that he is only going to ask 5,000 for her return and by the house her parents can afford it. Donna thinking quick says her family is only taking care of the house for the owners. Bryce doesn't believe her because of he knows her last name as an attorney as well as his Dad is retired from the engine plant and said how nice the general manger was. Bryce is suffering from a painful kidney infection and drinking a lot of water. Bryce has to stop at the Leavenworth exit to use the restroom and that is when Donna gets her chance. Donna has convinced Bryce that she can't even see well enough to get out of a ca without glasses is allowed to wait with the motor running due to a may heat wave. Donna is told even if you could see you couldn't drive this car anyway because no teenage girl can drive manual. Donna when Bryce is out of sight jumps in the drivers seat and noticing a Crawford county police officer pulls out of the truck stop at a high rate of speed dumping the clutch and barking the back tires. Donna is confused when the officer follows her but does not stop her. Donna finds out later the officer was waiting for backup. The police did not know Bryce wasn't in the car due to tinted windows. When a state police officer gets in the area a what was thought to be a high risk stop was made. Donna is told to get out of the car hands up and slowly walk backwards towards them and complies. The officers upon checking the car quickly realize Donna is alone and has escaped. Donna explains how she lied about her vision so Bryce trusted her to stay in the car. The officer then finds out Bryce has been taken into custody at the truck stop cussing the whole time about how that blind girl was going to wreck his car. An Optometrist one of the officers knows happened to be at the truck stop and when Bryce's backstop is searched looks at the glasses and says these are a prescription he might not even prescribe if it was one of his patients which prompts Bryce to cuss even more. Meanwhile Donna who does have her license as a matter of routine has her criminal and driving record run and both are clear. A wrecker is called for the car while Donna is driven back to the truck stop in the county police car. Bryce is headed to jail by the time Donna gets back and on the way she is allowed to use the officers phone to tell her very worried family she is ok but needs a ride back to Jasper.
The abduction happened around 8 in the morning and by noon it was over except for Donna getting back to Jasper. The family is told they can resume normal activities so John goes back to the engine plant due to a problem with machinery there. Eunice is almost late for a clients court appearance she had forgot about in all the excitement. Clint in Donna's car makes happily makes the drive to Leavenworth to pick up Donna. By 3pm all are back home and the only thing missed is the seminar about college living but they find out it was rescheduled due to the person giving it is a reserve police officer and wanted to help in the search for Donna.
Donna was not happy when she was made to learn manual thinking most cars are automatic but now is very happy she could drive one. It may have saved her life. Bryce pleaded guilty and if he makes parole will be almost 96 years old before getting out of prison.
Today both Donna and Clint are college freshman at the same place and neither is sure what they are going to do after graduation. Donna shows no ill effects from her ordeal but is more aware of her surrounding as is her parents and Clint. Donna and Jamie who is at a different college stay in touch via email, text and cell phone calls as well as seeing each other when home on break from school.

https://vision-and-spex.com/donna-s-one-day-ordeal-t1551.html