---
title: 'Everybody Makes Mistakes:'
author: Specs4ever
date: '2020-01-15'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: Alexandra, a stubborn waitress with worsening eyesight, discovers a pair of glasses that change her perspective.
---
My name is Alexandra,alth ough everybody calls me Sandy. I am 5’8” and am cute, relatively thin, with big boobs and a pretty nice ass and legs, so my boyfriend Jayden tells me. I wear my hair long and in a ponytail most of the time. Sometimes it is a chestnut brown, and sometimes I lighten it back to my natural dirty blond color, depending on how I feel. For the past couple of months, I have been wearing it a kind of dark blue color, but I think I will wash that out soon.  I know I am a little nearsighted, and I know my eyesight is getting worse, but I refuse to get glasses. I graduated from high school last year with pretty decent grades, but I didn’t want to go on to college, so I am waiting tables at a restaurant. 
 
I worked at the same restaurant for the last couple of summers. Albert, the owner, hired me when I was 15, and a few months ago, after I graduated, I asked Albert if he would keep me on if I didn’t go back to school. He said he would, but there was a bit of hesitation in his voice and I think I know why. Albert knows I don’t see very well, and he already mentioned the previous summer that I should have my eyes tested. But I hate the thoughts of wearing glasses. And I know that wearing glasses ruins your eyes even more  because my cousin Brenna, who is 2 years older than me, got glasses when she was 13. Now she is going into third year university at age 20 and she is blind as a bat without her coke bottle glasses. When she was 15, she had to get three new pairs of glasses that year, and in some other years she has had to get 2 new pairs. I don’t want that to happen to me.
 
My tips have dropped over the past couple of months. One guy even told me that the reason he didn’t tip me was because I ignored him. I didn’t ignore him. I just couldn’t see him waving at me and I wonder if some of the other times I got stiffed for a tip was because I didn’t see the customer signaling me. The guy that told me that he stiffed me said I was looking right at him when he was waving. I used to be able to see people waving at the other end of the restaurant, but like I said, my eyesight seems to be getting worse. I still don’t want to have to wear glasses though, even though Jayden has told me numerous times recently that I really need to have my eyes tested.
 
Today when I was scrubbing down the booths, I found a glasses case. Inside was a really nice looking pair of glasses, I put the glasses on for a minute and while they seemed a bit strong, everything looked so friggin clear I really wanted to leave them on. But I knew if I did that, I would get used to them, so I took them off and what I intended to do was to leave them on the counter near the cash register. I don’t know what made me do it, but instead I slipped them into my purse. If the owner did come back for them, I would just tell them I was keeping them safe for them.
 
Lately I had been having a real problem seeing the bus numbers until the bus got so close I almost missed it. That night I thought of the glasses in my purse as I was waiting for the right bus to come, and I took them out and put them on. Piece of cake. The number 86A bus showed up with its number clear as could be. I left the glasses on as I got on to the bus and wore them while I rode home. Shit, I didn’t realize what everything looked like anymore. Now I knew I was going to have to get glasses. It was going to suck big time trying to work without them the next day. And what about tonight? Jayden was coming by to get me and we were going to an early movie. He hated sitting as close to the screen as I needed to. If I wore these glasses, they worked so good we could almost sit in the next theater over and I could likely see the screen of the movie we wanted to see.
 
As I got closer to our house, I tried to take the glasses off. I couldn’t see shit. I almost tripped over a crack in the sidewalk. I really needed glasses and I knew now I had been a fool for not getting them. Even if I had to wear coke bottles like my cousin it would be better than going around half blind. As I walked up the sidewalk to the house mom walked around the corner before I could whip the glasses off.
 
“Oh honey, you actually got yourself a pair of glasses, I am so glad you finally gave in. Dad and I were worried that you would have an accident or something.” Mom said.
 
I mumbled something like “I didn’t want to but I finally realized I needed them,” and I headed up to my room to get ready to go out with Jayden. I took the glasses off to get into the shower, and when I got out they were the first thing I reached for – not because I wanted to wear them, but because I could no longer see without them. Damn, I was as blind as Brenna now. What was I going to do tomorrow if the owner of these glasses came in to get her glasses back? I toweled off and wrapped my hair in the towel. My glasses – no, not mine yet – the glasses were all steamed up so I took them off and cleaned them with a soft cloth. I looked at myself wearing glasses. I didn’t look too bad, but these lenses looked kind of thick. If I needed glasses this thick my eyes must be pretty bad.
 
Jayden was right on time. When I came to the door wearing glasses, he took one look at me and told me I looked great and that he was so happy I had finally given in and gotten myself a pair of glasses. Now I knew we couldn’t go to the movies. I had to get Jayden to drive me to the mall and we could go to the one hour glasses place and have these glasses duplicated so I could have glasses to wear to work tomorrow without worrying about the owner coming in and wanting her glasses back. I told Jayden about finding the glasses and realizing after wearing them for a while that we needed to go to the mall to have the lenses duplicated and we would have to miss the movie tonight.
 
“I wouldn’t worry about the owner of those glasses wanting her glasses back Sandy.” Jayden said. 
 
‘Why not? What if she comes in looking for them? If she sees them on my face she will know that they are hers.” I told him.
 
“I have known for the past year that your eyes have been getting worse. A couple of weeks ago I got a friend to help me, and based on the distance you had to hold things away from your eyes to be able to see clearly we figured out a rough prescription that you likely needed. You told me that you feel like those glasses are pretty close to what your eyes need, so we must have done the math correctly. They came in yesterday, so today I slipped into the restaurant and placed them in one of the booths. When I saw you wearing them tonight I knew I had done the right thing.” Jayden said.
 
I didn’t know whether to slug him or not. How dare he do this to me? But really, this was likely the only way he could have gotten me to wear glasses.
 
“If they don’t feel right we can always go and have your eyes tested properly.” Jayden said. 
 
“They feel pretty good. I can see things now that I didn’t even know were out there. I think I need to wear them for a while and then I can go to an eye doctor. If my cousin Brenna is any indication, after I wear these glasses for a little while my eyes will get even worse and I will need stronger glasses anyway.” I replied.
 
With that Jayden and I headed off to see the movie we had planned to see. It was wonderful to be able to sit well back from the screen. And if I had any worries about Jayden not liking me wearing glasses, he put them to rest in a hurry, His kisses were more passionate than they ever had been.
 
“You like me wearing glasses don’t you?” I asked.
 
“I like the fact that you can see. And I also like it that we will not have any more arguments about you not wanting to get glasses. If I had known how to do it without Phil’s help, I would have gotten you glasses a long time ago. But you will have to let me know when you want to go to see an eye doctor and I will take you to have a real eye test.” Jayden said.
 
“How strong are these glasses Jayden?” I asked.
 
“They are -6.00D for each eye. And I couldn’t measure exactly how far your eyes were apart, so I had to use the most normal one for ladies, which is 62mm. When we do go for a real eye exam, they will get all the numbers right instead of just guesswork.” Jayden said.
 
“That is a pretty strong prescription isn’t it?” I asked.
 
“Yes, it is. At -6.00D you are considered a high myope. I knew your eyes were pretty bad, and when we did the math it looked like -4.00D or -5.00D would be close to what you needed. But I also knew that your eyes were getting worse and worse, so I figured that you would likely be able to see better through slightly stronger lenses. And it looks like I guessed correctly Sandy.” Jayden replied.
 
I wore those glasses for almost a year until I was 18 before I went for a real eye exam. I had started to notice that things in the distance were getting all blurry again, and once I told Jayden he made an appointment with an eye doctor and took me to the office. The eye doctor poked and prodded me – well not really, but he put some sort of machine in my eye that puffed air into my eye to check the pressure. Then he put the big machine in front of my eyes and switched a bunch of lenses around so much that I was getting confused trying to decide which was better. Finally, he pronounced my prescription as being the best correction he could get for me and he sent me out to the receptionist where she took my money and gave me a print out of my prescription. Jayden had told me he could order me a much cheaper pair of glasses online so I didn’t order a pair and when I showed Jayden the prescription he took me to his place where he showed me all sorts of glasses frames online. I chose a cat eyes style frame in black, as I had lightened my hair back to its natural honey blond color and Jayden felt the black would look good on me. He had a special ruler that he had gotten for free when he got my original glasses, so he was able to measure my pupil distance correctly and then he ordered my new glasses.
 
About 2 weeks later my new glasses came in. I knew they were going to be stronger than my other glasses, and when I saw them, I could see that they really were. Brenna’s glasses were still a lot thicker, but my new glasses had the same flat fronts and because of the large sized frame the edges stuck out well past the back of the frame. I could see perfectly with them on. Yes, there was a little bit of a tug on my eyes, but everything was so clear again that I loved it.
 
Jayden had suggested that I should order a pair of sunglasses when he ordered my new glasses, but he had paid for my first pair of glasses as well as my new pair, so I didn’t want him to have to pay for my sunglasses. However, I discovered that I really needed a pair of prescription sunglasses because the sun bothered me a lot, so I stopped off at an optical store a few weeks later to see about ordering them. I had forgotten to bring my prescription, and the girl said she could read my lenses to get it if I wanted her to. She brought back a slip of paper and on it was written OD -9.00 x -0.75 x 95 and OS -9.00 x -1.00 x 88. I had not remembered all the numbers, but I did remember that the slip of paper the doctor’s office had given me had the numbers start with a -7.50. What had Jayden done? Had he made my prescription stronger? I could see super perfectly with these glasses, but if Jayden had made the numbers stronger wouldn’t that mean my eyes would get worse by adapting to the stronger glasses? I ordered my new sunglasses, but I was going to have it out with Jayden as soon as I could get him off by ourselves.
 
That night when Jayden came by I told him I wanted to go for a walk in the park. We headed off down the street, and as we got close to the park I told him I had gone in to the optical store to order myself a pair of prescription sunglasses. I could see the worried and guilty look he had come over his face.
 
“Why did you make my prescription stronger than the doctor gave me Jayden?” I asked.
 
“Your eyes got a lot worse after you got those first glasses that I was afraid that the doctor had likely given you the exact prescription you needed and I knew you would probably need a change of prescription in a very short period of time. So, I ordered the new glasses to be just a little bit stronger in the hopes that they would last you a year or two.” Jayden told me.
 
“But won’t me wearing a stronger prescription than I need make my eyes get worse faster?” I asked.
 
“Not really. Your genetic makeup usually determines your final prescription if everything I have read is correct. If your eyes get worse than the prescription that is in those glasses over the next 2 years it is very likely that you would have had to buy 2 pairs of glasses in that period of time.” Jayden answered.  
 
“And you might as well be honest with me. I have seen the way you stare at my cousin Brenna when she is wearing her glasses. You like the look of thicker lenses, don’t you?” I asked.
 
“You are correct. I do.” Jayden told me.
 
“It is a good thing I forgot my prescription slip then, because I ended up ordering my sunnies with the same prescription that is in these glasses. And they will be thicker because I just got the cheapest lenses instead of the 1.67 hi index ones that are in this pair.” I told Jayden.
 
“I will really like them then.” Jayden responded.
 
“How strong would you like my glasses to be Jayden. I will tell you right now that I don’t want to be wearing glasses that are as strong as Brenna’s.”  I told him.
 
“They are plenty strong now honey. I wouldn’t care if your glasses never needed to be any thicker.” Jayden said.
 
The matter of the additional -1.50D of power seemed to be settled and I sort of forgave Jayden for making my glasses stronger than I really needed. I knew that my cousin Brenna’s glasses were around -18.50D in power, which was a little more than twice as strong as I was now wearing. If Jayden was correct and my genetic makeup was going to determine my final glasses prescription, I could only hope that my mom, who was Brenna’s mother’s sister, did not pass on the exact same genes to me as Brenna’s mom passed on to her. I really didn’t want to wear glasses that were as strong as Brenna’s. But I also knew that once I had started wearing glasses there was nothing that could stop my myopic progression except if I were to finally reach an age where my myopia stopped progressing on its own and since Brenna was still needing stronger glasses every year or so I would need to get at least a couple of years older before it would stop.
 
Since I had started wearing glasses my tips had gotten a lot bigger. And I was also doing a better job. Albert was very pleased that now that I could see properly, I was much better employee. Jayden was trying to talk me into going back to school to take a course in nursing because he felt that I could earn more money, but I didn’t have a lot of interest in school. I was pretty satisfied with what I was doing. Jayden was graduating with a degree in software engineering and he had been hired by a new startup. He wanted us to get an apartment together, and although I wanted to get married, I was all right with living together as long as we were engaged. We went hunting for an apartment that was a reasonable bus ride for us both to get to work and we were fortunate enough to find one that suited both of our requirements. We furnished the apartment with stuff that came mostly from garage sales and then we moved in.
 
I had worn glasses now for about 3 years. Putting them on first thing in the morning and leaving them on until I went to bed was as natural to me as putting on my bra.  I really couldn’t see well enough to function without them now. Jayden was the first to notice that I was scrunching up my eyes to see things, but once he had mentioned it to me, I could now tell that my vision was not as good as I wanted it to be. After all, if I had to have the weight of a pair of glasses on my nose the glasses might as well work like they were supposed to and give me the extremely good vision I wanted.
 
I made an appointment with the same doctor I had gone to before. I knew he would likely notice that the glasses I had been wearing were stronger than the ones he last prescribed me, so I figured I would just tell him I had been out of town and had gone to another doctor when I noticed that I needed another eye exam. That worked, and I got a new prescription for -10.00D glasses with about the same astigmatism numbers as before. I was in a bit of a quandary. I knew that if I got the exact prescription the doctor wrote for me and I needed new glasses in a couple of months the doctor would pay for the remake if I ordered from his optical store. I priced a pair of glasses from his store, but they were a lot more expensive than I wanted to pay. I went back to the apartment to discuss this little problem with Jayden.
 
“We should order you -12.00D glasses Sandy.” Jayden said.
 
“I don’t want my glasses to be that strong Jay.” I replied.
 
“Look, last time I ordered you glasses that were -1.50D stronger. You ate up that over correction up and added another -1.00D in right around 2 years. If we order -2.00D stronger you will likely be able to get through the next couple of years. And if your eyes don’t ever get to be as bad as the -12.00D prescription then we will know you have reached your maximum.” Jayden argued.
 
I couldn’t really argue with his logic. Just because I didn’t want my eyes to reach a prescription of -12.00 didn’t mean that they wouldn’t. Brenna’s eyes were still getting worse, and she had recently gotten new glasses with a -20D prescription.  She had gotten new contact lenses but apparently strong contact lenses are thicker around the outer edges and thinner in the middle, so she has been having trouble getting used to having the thicker lenses in her eyes. She has been wearing her glasses a lot more and they look a little strange to me as the area where the prescription is does not go to the edges of her new Ray Ban frames. But she says she can see just fine so she will be wearing her glasses a lot of the time.
 
Finally, I gave in. I agreed that I would order new clear glasses and a pair of sun glasses with a prescription of OD -12.00 x -0.75 x 95 and OS -12.00D x -1.00 x 88. Jayden wanted me to order my new clear glasses with the same 1.67 hi index lenses that I had in my old glasses, and he wanted me to get my sunglasses with the cheapest lenses, the same as I had done before. He figured that no one could tell that my sun glasses were that strong with the dark tint, and I suppose he was correct. There was a 1.74 hi index option for my clear glasses, but Jayden talked me out of getting that because he said there would be time to do that option if my eyes got even worse. I didn’t want to hear that about the possibility of my eyes getting worse.
 
Both pairs of my new glasses came in together a couple of weeks later. Since I knew I really needed stronger glasses my old glasses with the -9.00D prescription seemed even weaker than they had felt before my eye exam. When my new glasses came in and I put them on my face they felt wonderful. It seemed like I had fantastic eyesight now. My sunglasses looked to be quite a bit thicker and when I compared them to my old sunglasses I bet there was a bit more than ½” sticking out behind the frame of my Ray Ban’s. I had ordered a similar style and shape frame for my clear lenses, and while they were a little thicker than my old clear glasses, they were sticking out a lot less than the tinted regular lenses did.
 
The day I got my new glasses Jayden came home from work and as soon as he looked at me I knew we were going to head for a romp in the bedroom. We were both naked on the bed, and Jayden was touching me to try to lubricate me. He was really hard, and I reached for my glasses to take them off so that we could make love when he asked me to please leave them on for him. I did and we had a very sensual lovemaking. I don’t know how he managed to hold on until I came but he did and we both climaxed together.
 
“You must like my new glasses then Jayden?” I queried.
 
“You look absolutely gorgeous wearing them Sandy.” Jayden replied.
 
I didn’t like them quite as much as Jayden did. There was a pretty big cut in area at each side of my face that was minified by the lenses in my glasses. And my eyes looked to be a lot smaller behind the lenses. But since Jayden seemed to like them a lot, I felt much better about the thickness and the cut in. If I thought I was blind when I took off my old glasses, it didn’t take very long before I really felt helpless without my new glasses. I could still read up close with my old glasses, and I did that once in a while, but to do anything other than reading required me to wear my new glasses. I was pretty pleased when a full 2 years went by and my eyes didn’t seem to have gotten any worse. I suppose they had gotten bad enough to reach the prescription that was in the lenses, but I could still see perfectly through the stronger lenses, so I was hopeful that finally my progression had stopped.
 
My cousin Brenna had finished university and had married her boyfriend. She was 25 years old now and her myopic progression still had not stopped. Her newest glasses had a prescription of -23.00D and they were what she called full myodiscs. Her prescription was all right in a circle in the center of her lenses. I really hoped I would never have my eyesight get that bad, as I thought her newest glasses looked really strange and it was pretty obvious she was blind as could be. I was a bridesmaid for her wedding, and she had just gotten her new glasses in time to be married. Her days of wearing contacts seemed to be behind her, but she was still really pretty even when wearing her weird looking glasses.
 
After Jayden and I were at Brenna and Dave’s wedding Jayden asked me to marry him. I agreed of course, and for the next few months I was all stressed out planning the wedding. It had been close to 3 years since I had gotten the glasses I was wearing and now I was finding that they were really not strong enough for me to see properly. Jayden wanted me to change eye doctors as he felt that my old eye doctor would find out we had increased the prescription he had given me. I asked Brenna who she used as an eye doctor and she gave me her doctor’s name and number. I called and set up an appointment, and while I would have liked one sooner it took about 2 weeks before I could get in to see her. By that time, I was really struggling to see things clearly so I knew I would be getting another sizeable increase. And I was correct. My new prescription was going to have to be -14.25D with my same astigmatism. That was a -2.25D increase over my -12D glasses. I couldn’t believe I had increased that much over 3 years. Actually, I had gone from -10.00D up to -14.25 in that time. I was feeling pretty depressed that my eyes were now as bad as they were.  But Jayden didn’t seem to think it was that big a deal. He felt that by increasing the power of my glasses by -2.00D we had gotten the full 3 years out of that prescription, and now he wanted me to let him order my new glasses in a prescription of -16.00D or even -16.50D. I didn’t want that. I wanted my eyes to stay right at whatever the doctor had tested them at. But from what had been happening over the past 5 years had showed me that this wasn’t going to happen. Finally, Jayden convinced me that a prescription of -16.50 wouldn’t be so bad and we now ordered my new glasses in the 1.74 hi index lenses. And he also ordered my new sunglasses with the 1.67 hi index lenses so they would be a little thinner.
 
The 2 new pairs of glasses took about a week longer than our last couple of orders took. I suppose it was the higher powers of the new glasses that caused this delay. When they finally arrived, I could hardly wait to get my new glasses out of the case and on to my face. The last 5 weeks had been hell as my vision seemed to have getting worse and worse by the day. Finally, I had my new glasses on my face and it was a wonderful relief to have clear vision again. It actually felt good to have to make my eyes work a little bit to see through the new lenses. I looked at myself in the bedroom mirror. All I saw was a pair of very thick glasses looking back at me and I knew that when someone looked at me that was exactly what they saw – a pair of very thick and strong glasses. Probably once they got over the shock of seeing such a strong pair of glasses the person would go on to focus on other aspects of my face and my figure. Just like Brenna was, I was now glasses with legs. Both our mothers couldn’t help but wonder where the genes that caused both Brenna and myself to be severely myopic had come from, but they had figured that it had come from their side of the family. No one they knew of their immediate ancestors had vision problems, and there certainly had not been any progressive myopes like Brenna and I were. It seemed to remain a mystery as to why we both had such bad eyes and everyone hoped we would not pass our poor eyesight on to our children.
 
By the time the wedding day rolled around I was just a nervous wreck. I had not been getting much sleep, and this had taken a toll on me. Eventually the day arrived and Jayden and I managed to fumble our way through it. As we set off on our honeymoon I was thankful that Jayden had stuck with me throughout the time that my eyes had gotten worse and worse, and my glasses needed to be thicker and thicker.
 
Sometimes I wondered if I had made a mistake that day I had found the glasses that Jayden had bought for me and had left in a booth at the restaurant where I worked. Would my eyes have continued getting worse and worse if I had not ever put those glasses on? Would my eyes have gotten worse as fast as they had if I had made Jayden order my new glasses in the correct  prescription that the doctor gave me?  But what had happened had happened and it was too late to go back.  Oh well, everybody makes mistakes.
 
Specs4ever
October 20 2018

https://vision-and-spex.com/everybody-makes-mistakes-t1596.html