---
title: Family and friends vision.
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-05-19'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: A high school romance uncovers the need for glasses, leading to a lifelong friendship and generations of eyewear.
---
In 1977 while a junior in high school I began seeing Jill who was the same age (17) as me and in the same grade. I already had my drivers license but Jill did not despite a strong interest in cars. At the time I had 20/20 vision so I'm not sure I would have noticed if someone else needed glasses. I often wondered why Jill did not get her drivers license. Money was not an issue with her parents as they wanted her to get a car. Jill's parents said they would pay the insurance and they didn't understand why she didn't want her license. Jill during high school was enrolled in a vocational education program in auto mechanics. Finally the first time we went to a movie I figured it out. While I normally liked to sit midway or towards the back Jill wanted to sit on the front row which I said ok and we did. When we came out of the movie to my car I said I have a question. Are you afraid to get your drivers license because you probably need glasses? Jill broke down crying and said yes. I asked why don't you just ask your parents for an eye exam? Jill said she didn't know how so I said I would help her. I told Jill to be strong when approaching your parents and I will be right there beside you. Jill started to ask her parents but broke down crying before she could get it out. Her Mom who I have a good relationship with to this day even though we are no longer an item said Dana (I know possible female name but I'm male) what is wrong with her? I said Mom Veronica as I called her then and still do Jill is afraid to go for her drivers license because she probably needs glasses. Jill's Mom hugged and thanked me for bringing out the real reason. Jill and her Mom insisted I go to the Doctor's appointment with her to help pick out the glasses which I did. Jill picked out a nice pair of glasses and the same day she got them went and got her learners permit. Back then high schools still had drivers education so as a senior she took it even though with her parents teaching her she was able to get her license before the class ended after the first semester. At first Jill just wore glasses when driving but after a short time noticing how much better she saw with them started wearing them most of the time. We went our separate ways after high school as many do but with no hard feelings. I took a entry level job with a major insurance company which did not require college and worked my way up taking night college classes the company paid for which helped me advance. When I went for my first drivers license renewal a total surprise happened as I failed the vision screening. I got glasses and like Jill only wore them for driving at first but soon started wearing them all the time. I got married in 82 and by 92 my wife and I had an 8 year old Daughter who failed the eye exam at school that year. I called a pediatric Eye Dr. with the last name Jackson. One of my best friends in high school had that last name. I got the surprise of my life when I went to the appointment. The Dr. was not my friend but it was Jill who had married my friend. Jill did the appointment and said I've always wanted to find you and say thank you for getting me into this profession. My Daughter got her glasses and now grown with a child of her own wears them to this day after a brief with contacts at 14 which she didn't like. My Grandson also had to get glasses at age 16 due to failing his drivers license exam after passing his vision screening for his permit. Now 17 my Grandson still only wears his glasses when driving and even almost got a ticket for not wearing them but the Police Officer let him off with a stern warning since he had them in his car. We are hoping my Grandson will come around to our way of thinking on wearing glasses. Just a note my Wife and I reconnected with Jill and her Husband and are now good friends even taking a couple of vacations together.

https://vision-and-spex.com/family-and-friends-vision-t1301.html