---
title: Fantasia ©
author: Joe
date: '2014-01-27'
categories:
  - Joe
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: A chance encounter with a genie grants three wishes, leading to a lifetime of wealth and extraordinary vision.
---
Fantasia ©
As observed by Genie #3

I was at a big resort in the Hawaiian Islands and decided to take a walk down a deserted beach in the evening. 
I was sort of scuffling along  feeling the soft sand under my bare feet when I stumbled over something.  I stooped and brushed the sand away from it. It was an old oil lamp like genies are reputed to live in.
What the heck, I'll give a try, definitely not expecting anything.
I rubbed. Smoke instantly appeared and then a Genie. WOW, I about fainted. The Genie gave the usual spiel about thanks for the break in the monotony and you can have 3 wishes. He said there would be some restrictions such as, I couldn't wish for more wishes and I couldn't wish for anything that would change the course of history.
Havng read many fantasy genie stories about making wrong or bad wishes, I was immedietly at full attention so I would not screw this up.
My first wish was for enough money to last me a lifetime of luxury.
My second wish was to be able to instantly accommodate to any pair of glasses I should put on no matter how strong or wierd.
I asked the Genie if I could defer the 3rd wish till later. He said yes, no problem and no time limit. Just rub the lamp when I was ready for the 3rd and he would come and grant it.
I headed back to the hotel to check my bank account online.
There were so many zeros after the 1 that I gave up trying to count them. I saw that there was a note on the account that somehow the money was hidden from the banking system so spending it in any amount would not affect the economy or history. 
I had been doing GOC for many years so I had several pairs of very strong glasses with me with the matching contacts. I got everything out and took off my regular -6 glasses.
I picked out a pair of -15's and put them on with no contacts.
WOW!!!! Everything was so crisp and clear I gasped. Things were not even this clear with my regular glasses and they were -.5 stronger than I needed. I looked around out the window. As far as there was to see everything was super crispy sharp.
A problem with stronger than needed glasses most of the time is, reading is difficult if not impossible without bifocals or pulling the glasses down your nose. I picked up the newspaper and held it about a foot away. I could read it perfectly and with absolutely no strain. The Genie had hit it dead on. This really was neat.
I took off the glasses and instantly reverted back to my -6.
I tried my -20 glasses and the same thing happened. Perfect vision with them and back to -6 bare eyed. I had never tried any glasses stronger than -20 but had always wanted to try as strong as was possible to make. I had no idea what was possible.
I have a friend out west that used to have a pair around -40 that he told me of many years ago. I called him and yes he still had them.
I asked if I could come by and try them on. He said sure. He asked where I was now and I said in Hawaii. I'll be by in a couple days.
He said ok and I went to pack up.
When I got back to the States I went to the closest Ford dealer and bought the latest available Mustang R model.
I drove (quite fast) to my friends house. After a drink and some getting caught up on happenings since we met last, he went and got his -40 glasses. They were rather ugly, old and more than a few scratches.
He asked if I had contacts to match them. I just said I didn't need them. I put the glasses on and lo and behold, perfect vision. He said I probably couldn't see much that way but I said on the contrary. I proceeded to read the label on the scotch bottle sitting on the table 4 feet away. He said, how do you do that!!!!!
I said I just have good accommodation. He said no way Jose. What's the trick? No trick, try me on anything. Close up or far away. Doesn't matter. After showing him what I could do he was convinced I could do it but sure didn't see how.
He said, you could make a lot of money by helping medical science.
I finally decided to tell him about the lamp. After an hour of that, I said, among the introduction things the Genie had told me was the fact I could not wish for anything that would change the course of history. That rules out helping medical science. He said I could not wish for more wishes also.
We had dinner and I thanked him for his hospitality and headed for home.
On the way I got to wondering just how much accommodation I had.
When I got home I found 2 old Coke bottles in the basement. 
(Doesn't everyone have old Coke bottles in their basement?)
I cut the bottoms out of them. (Don't ask how. I just did. I'm handy that way.)
I took my glasses off and holding the bottoms up to my eyes, I could see perfectly through them even with all the wavy imperfections. Now I could truly have a pair of Coke bottle glasses.
I had to giggle at that. I would have to see about getting them in a frame. 
They would be guaranteed to start a glasses conversation. I also had some stemware glasses that where the stem meets the base there is a very high minus curve in the glass but it is only about 1/2 inch in diameter. I guesstimated the diopters of this area to be about minus 80 or so. I took one of the glasses and cut the base and the upper portion of the stem off. I polished the ends on my metal buffing wheel. Not really shiny but I could see an image through it. I held it up to my bare eye and wow, perfect vision. Now I had to figure out how to find the curve of the "lens". I slept on the thought.
The next day I decided that while I had the mechanical means to measure the curve and then run the numbers through the formula, it would be a waste of time since the "lens" was so small it wouldn't be practical to mount in a frame.
Now I had to apply some thought to what my 3rd wish would be. This was going to be difficult.
I thought I would try to come up with something that would not violate any of the wish restrictions but would "bend" them somewhat.
I needed a consultation with the Genie to find out if there were any restrictions he had not told me about.
I went and got the lamp and rubbed. He came and said, you rang?
(He must watch old TV shows)
Yes, for my 3rd wish, can you give me powers to do things similar to genies as long as what is done does no harm or causes no problems? He said, yes, but, if you screw up and do something wrong you will lose the power of all 3 wishes along with the lamp.
I asked if I could have a printed copy of the rules to go with the wish and unlimited consultation service for anything I might wish for. He said yes.
I thanked him for the info and he returned in the lamp.
I had to do some serious thinking about the wording of the upcoming wish.
I thought about it all for a couple of weeks and finally decided to go for the genie powers. I would be able to conjure up any kind of glasses I wanted by blinking my eyes. All I would have to do is remember not to try saving the world.
I went and got the lamp and called the Genie. I told him of my wish and he said, so be it. He said he would be available for "tech support" and went back to the lamp.
I thought I would try my new ability. I wanted a scotch on the rocks. I blinked and there it was on the coffee table. Pretty neat.
Now I had a brainy idea I might want an SOP to share my new life so I called tech support and asked if that would violate any rules.
He said no, that was fine and there was a list of available women if I was interested. These were single women that had been taught the ways of the genie world so there would be no introduction problems. I said, send me the list and thanks.
I turned my head and there was the list on the coffee table. There were complete history's and descriptions of each woman along with several photos.
I decided to pick one that was nearsighted about like me and slightly crosseyed. I like crosseyed women. Yea, me and Rene D.
I liked the idea of having her really strong but not looking like "Miss Muscle Beach" (more like Lauren Powers), big real boobs (about 44DD), auburn hair in a page boy cut, About 5'10" in bare feet, bubbly outgoing personality and good at anything she did.
I called tech support back and gave him my list. He looked for a minute and said, no sweat, one SOP coming up. Poof and there she was. Wow, that's all I could say for several minutes. I just stared. She probably thought I was a nut case. Anyway she finally broke the silence. My name is Kellye. This is a very nice pad you have here, I think I will like living here and making you happy. I said you are very beautiful and I'm sure we will make a good couple.
I conjured up a couple of drinks and we sat and talked for several hours.
We also exchanged most of the technical data about ourselves by direct brain transfer. Likes, dislikes, eating habits, fetishes and so forth. After I told her of my glasses fetish she said she had been nearsighted since she was very young and glasses had always been fascinating to her. She had never done much with them but had noticed masturbating with them on was more sensational than without. I asked about her double vision and she said without glasses the images were about 6 inches apart at arms length. Just hearing her talk about it was getting me hot. I said I had a slight bit of strabismus also but had never worn prism for it. I asked how much prism she had in her prescription and she said 8 on each side base out. She said would you like to try my glasses? Wow, does Yogi like picnic baskets? She said let me try yours also. 
We switched. There was an instant of accommodation to the prism and I had perfect vision again. I immediately noticed there was a slight 3D effect from the prism's. It was really neat and I noticed I was really getting hot now. She said yours are very close to mine on the distance correction but I see double without the prism's. I was getting hotter. She said, seeing very clear and sharp but double is a new experience to me. It is getting me hot. I asked if now that we had exchanged all data on each other and could foresee no problems in the future, should we get married? She said yes. I called tech support and asked if he could marry us legally.
He said yes, so be it. You may kiss the bride. Thanks again Genie.
We spent the next 2 days in bed wearing each others glasses.
While laying there basking in the afterglow, she asked me if I had any other fetishes. Not being aware of any that info had not been transferred during the direct brain exchange. I said not that I am aware of but I had wondered how fetishes got started in the first place because I was not aware of how I got so obsessed with glasses.
She said she didn't know that either but she was quite interested and wondered how it would be to exchange genders for a short period of time.
I thought about that for awhile....Hmmnnn, that might be something to look into.
I woke up in the middle of the night and was wondering about the coke bottle bottom lenses I had cut out. What type of frame should I put them in? I thought for awhile and a large aviator type came to mind because the edges would be extremely thick and be very prominent due to the very large size lens. Ah yes, that would be one of tomorrow's projects.
My mind wandered to the experimental gender swap Kellye had proposed. I would have to talk to tech support about that tomorrow. Right now, back la la land.
After breakfast while Kellye was cleaning up I summoned the Genie. I told him of the gender idea and asked if there would be any problems. He said no and that we could switch back and forth at will. He cautioned about being around old friends and saying something embarrassing. I said point noted.
I asked if I could give Kellye genie powers so I wouldn't have to conjure things for her. He said that would be ok.
Poof and he was back in the lamp.
As I watched her put the dishes away, I said, hey look over here. When she looked I blinked her the genie power.
She said, what did you just do. I said you now have the same powers as me. You are not a genie, you just have limited powers like me. She said thanks. I think I will try it out. She blinked and instantly she was wearing an extremely nice looking pair of black cat eye frames with about 20 prism's base out on each side and -10 sphere. She now appeared quite cross eyed.
 I was getting hot again and she noticed. I said why don't you wear those for awhile, they really look good. She said sure, I like the view through them also.
On this gender change, I have been thinking that it might be good to have all the info about the opposite gender transfer also to avoid some stupid mistake in actions or dress code. She said that would be very good choice. I don't know much about "man" habits and stuff and you probably don't know much about women's stuff. I said you are right on that.
Another thing that would probably be a good idea is we switch gender with each other. That way when we go somewhere no one will suspect anything. Great idea. Lets do it. Blink blink.
I said, wow, these boobs are really heavy. She said I didn't have a bra on when we switched. Go put one on and it will be no problem then. Second drawer in the brown dresser. After I returned she said after a short time you will hardly notice the weight.
She said try tickling the nipples and see what happens. Ok. Oops, I just went off in my panties. That's pretty neat.
I said I don't know if that will work the other way or not. Give it a try. She said it feels good but will take awhile to get warmed up. She said it feels funny to not have hair brushing against my neck. I said it feels quite different to have longer hair also.
I do like the page boy cut though. She said I find it very good for low maintenance. She asked me if I had ever tried high heels.
I said nope. I just hadn't thought about it. Maybe I should try them so I won't make a fool out of myself when we go out. Good plan she said. Bottom shelf in the big closet. Try a pair with 5 inch heels and round toe. They will be easier for the first time and the round toe is more comfortable. You can go to 6 inch heels later. I went and put them on and the feeling was very exhilarating. I felt like I had worn them for years. I walked out and paraded in front of Kellye. she said, you will do fine. I said, I will do better than fine. These are really something I have been missing all my life. She said, yes, they are quite addictive.
She finished reading the morning paper, drained her coffee cup and said, ya know, I don't know what my last name is now.
Oops. I guess I had overlooked an important item. I said it is now Wells. The first name is John. I didn't feel I could tell you till now but I am a product of the witness protection system. I have been very well hidden and had no problems so far but with these new powers it will be very easy to hide deeper if need be. We can pose as twins if need be. Giggle.
I don't think I can obliterate my old identity and records as that would violate the "can't change history" rule. Everything should be ok as is though. She asked if I could tell her of my former life and why I had to be in the WPS. I said, no, that has to be in the past. No other way about that. She just said,ok.
She said, have you been thinking about any weird things we can do with glasses or crossed eyes and so forth. I said I hadn't been thinking about it but I am right now. How about being quite crosseyed but seeing normal without any glasses or contacts?
That is an interesting concept she said. I blinked my eyes crossed in all the way and took my glasses off. Ahhhh, perfect vision.
How about that? She tried it and wow, I was getting hard again. We should go out in public like this just for kicks. Somewhere away from any place we might meet any of our friends. 
Well we are in Podunkville now. How about going over to Nowheresburg? Sounds good to me. Let's go. We climbed in the Mustang and drove (fast) 3 towns over. It is hard to keep my foot off the throttle with 600 hp. under the hood. A person in the WPS doesn't need to be calling any attention to himself with a speeding ticket. I'm not ready to become Kellye's twin permanently.
We arrived and went walking through the shopping mall and then down the main street. People were looking at us but trying to be discrete. It was a riot to watch. A lot of the men were oggling my boobs before they looked at my eyes. I had to giggle. Kellye did also.
I had wondered about walking very far in 5 inch heels but I noticed that there was no discomfort and it felt like I could go all day. I mentioned this and Kellye said, yes, if they fit properly, you can go for days with no problems.
We decided to go to dinner at one of the better eatery's in town. After getting seated, we were looking around at the various people trying to watch us discretely. It was really funny. If you let your gaze go at them, they would instantly look someplace else. giggle giggle. One guy in particular was looking at me and didn't stare away for awhile. He had extremely strong minus glasses on. Probably the strongest I had ever seen in public. I asked Kellye if she had noticed him and she said yes.
About the time we were getting ready to order desert I noticed this guy get up and head our way. He came over and introduced himself as Joe Jones and wondered if we were on the internet and if so did we get on a website called Eyescene? I said yes on the internet but no on that website. He said it is all about glasses and eyes. I invited him to sit down. Tell us more about this site. After about 15 minutes of telling us about the posts there, GOC, the weird people with many names, phony MO's and the excellent well informed ones he said, well, what do you think? I said it was highly interesting and we were both glasses and crossed eyes fetishists. He said he had been doing GOC for many years and had written a few stories published there and on another site hosted by a guy in Europe. He gave us the various website URL's and warned us to not take much seen there seriously. There were a few really sick people on there but for the most part they were just plain folks like us. After he left, I conjured up my laptop computer from home and had it appear on the floor under the table so it wouldn't appear strange if I suddenly had it on the table. I reached under the table and retrieved it. I brought up the website Joe had told us about and started looking around. Having been trained in intelligence and cloak and dagger stuff, I recognized a couple of the phony posters instantly. I noticed there were several people though not doctors, had a lot of knowledge about optical stuff.
I would have to bookmark this site and watch it for awhile. Another site Joe told us about was Glasseschat. A live chat room about glasses and eyes. I registered in and looked around. I soon noticed that almost all of the conversations were in private rooms although the website rules said not to do that. Having been trained in website access hacking, it didn't take long to get access to the private rooms. Wow, what a bunch of perverts and wierdos. Some very nice people also. I went back to the main room and tried to get someone to talk to me. Nope, I guess they were all involved so I would come back later. I did notice one of the moderators was a woman. I'll check her out later. I got to thinking, why not check her out now by invading her brain. I told Kellye I was going to be slightly out of it locally for a minute or so. I blinked myself into the moderator's brain. Wow, she had quite a history. She was a former Olympic ice skating gold medalist for one thing. She was very myopic. Around minus 10.
She had 6 kids and lived in Florida. I noticed she was quite unhappy about the chat room in that the owner had not given her complete access to all of the features of the room software when he made her a moderator. I fixed that with a blink and also took the owner's website password away from him so all he had was limited power there now. Giggle, chortle, GUFFAW. I blinked back to the dinner. Kellye asked, where did you go? I told her what I did and she just about split a gut laughing. She/I/we (oh well) someone paid the bill and we went home.
The next morning I decided to help some people out that had given me a lot of help in my younger days. These people had been hard hit by tradgedys they had no control over. (No need to elaborate on that) They probably couldn't handle a large sum of money and the government might wonder where it came from so I had to figure how to help without it showing. Ah, a brainy idea popped into my head. I would give them a credit card on my account but with a different password and pin. I would put a monthly limit on it also. The limit was plenty high so they wouldn't live in the low rent district the rest of their lives. I checked with tech support and this was OK with them.
I sent a letter notifying the people what was going to happen and that I did not expect anything in return.
So much for that. I would check with them in a couple months to see how it was going. It really felt good doing that.
There were several other people that I thought deserved something also. They were various ones that had made my life easier when I was growing up. Some were teachers I had had. Teachers that taught me things that would save my ass in later years. I would have to think about how to help them anonymously. Might be a problem.
When Kellye came in for breakfast she said, I see you are wearing some 6 inch heels. How do they feel? I said like normal. The sensation of the high heel is the only thing I am feeling. They are absolutely perfect. No pinching or pressure spots. She said they fit ok then. That is how it should be.
I said, how do you like being crosseyed and not having to wear glasses? She responded, it's perfect, no problems.
The only thing is, when I look in a mirror I get hot. I giggled.
One thing I wanted to do today was get my coke bottle bottoms mounted in a frame. I conjured up a suitable frame. It was an aviator type with fairly small band widths so there would be more lens edge showing. I blinked the lenses in the frame. Ah, the edges don't look exactly right. I tried with polished edges. Not bad. Need some bevel. Ah, just about right.
I look in the mirror with them on. Need more bevel to accentuate the power rings. Better. Maybe try slightly increasing the edge thickness a bit. Just right. The green tint in the glass accentuated the cut-in. These should sure start some conversations about glasses. I asked Kellye for her opinion. She said, super nice. It looks like you would be totally blind (figuratively) without them. I think I'm a weirdo. Giggle chortle.
Glancing through the sports section of the paper I noticed there was a sports car race at the local track today. I knew I would have a good chance of winning because my new Mustang was the model that was winning races all over the country. I knew any performance I was to deliver on the track would have to be on my own ability so as to not change history. I was a pretty good race driver as I had done a lot of it when I was younger. One big problem though. My boobs were so big they interfered with fast turning of the steering wheel. Wow, I had only been female a few days and I needed a breast reduction all ready. Giggle, chortle. 
Blink and so it was. Just enough to work but not be noticed. They would go back to normal size automatically after the race. 
I blinked up some current medical exam papers, a new driving suit and some appropriate clothes to get to the track in. I had to do this as Kellye because I couldn't take a chance on someone recognizing my driving style and blowing the whistle on me. I told Kellye where I would be and took off for the track. I got there and  made it 
through registration and tech inspection all ok. One of the tech inspectors asked me if I could see ok being crosseyed but I assured him I saw normally just like most people. I found a pit area away from most of the cars. No need being too noticeable. There weren't very many women drivers here today and they always attract the media for human interest stories. I knew from past experience that if you were grouchy and answered questions abruptly they would not bother you much unless you won or at least made the podium. I figured if I won, I would just cross that bridge at the the time. We lined up for hot lap practice. It was soon obvious why these cars were winning races all over the country. They were just plain fast and handled like they were glued to the track. I didn't let it all out so no one would know just how much I had. These races are fairly long so it is better to stay in the pack but close to the front till time to make a move. It saves wear and tear on the car. We lined up for the main event. I was in the third row due to the number I drew at the position drawing.
That's a good place to be in one of these races. You generally have less to worry about at the first corner.
The flag dropped and we were off. I held my position till turn 4 and then passed 2 cars in slower classes.
I was 3rd now. A good place to be for awhile. It wasn't long before cars in my class were biting at my rear. I just stepped it up a bit. Just enough to keep ahead but not run away and make a parade of it. The fans like close racing and the fans pay the purse.
About half way in the race I was running second to a modified Shelby Cobra. He was fast but I had way more off the corners. The blower really made a difference. We held our positions for awhile. I drafted him most of the time to save gas. About 2 laps to go I decided to get around him. I waited for a long sweeping corner just after the finish line and out braked him into it. It was an easy pass and that's how we finished. This is an absolutely amazing car. I did however realize this was just a local race and to compete nationally it would take a whole lot of modification to compete. Anyway I wasn't interested in racing all the time.
On the podium I thought I handled the press quite well. I answered all their questions with double talk and BS and with a big smile. Giggle. Like the old saying, if you can't dazzle them with brilliance, baffle them with BS. I went and collected the winning purse and found the track promoter. I told him to donate the money to the injured racer hospital fund and keep it quiet where the money came from. He thanked me and I headed home.
I decided to go back to being "me" for awhile and told Kellye. She said, fine. She liked it the way she was for awhile. I now had an identical twin brother. When we were both in "male mode" she had chosen the name Kelly, merely dropping the "e" on the end her name.
A thing that has been in the back of my mind for several years is that the people I know that like the glasses fetish always have trouble getting just exactly the glasses they want from the commercial labs. Some labs won't even talk to you about any special features you might want like a plano base on minus 2 lenses or extra thickness for people that like thick lenses. Now that I can do it I think I will create a lab just for special glasses. We will advertise throughout the industry that we can do absolutely anything that can be done with CR39 plastic. No hi-index, poly or glass. This company is strictly for "us".
With my backing, the company won't have to worry about keeping solvent so the quality of the products will be the best in the industry. "Satellite quality" I believe is the modern term for that. Now I had to go find a suitable piece of land for the lab.
Since all of the business will be mail in and out, the location can be just about anywhere with a zip code. Thinking more about it, I kind of liked the idea of a "cover" business. That is, a physical cover, not a business cover.
It could be in the same building as a currently operating commercial lab but completely separated. I would go and see if there were any labs that fit the bill around here. A few minutes of searching on the internet turned up a likely candidate in the nearby town of Somewheresville. I made an appointment with the owner for the next day. When I got done I went and told Kellye what I was doing. She thought it was a great idea. A real good service to "our" community.
The next day I met the owner and told him of my plan and asked would he be willing to sell his business. He said yes for the right price. We discussed this for awhile and finally came to an agreement. He had his attorney draw up the papers and in a couple days the business was mine. The employees were all rather anxious as I called them all together for our first meeting.
Many wondered if they were going to get the ax. Since the company had been one of the top labs in the business I saw no reason to make any changes. I said as of tomorrow all employees would be getting a raise in pay amounting to twice what they were making now and that included benefits more also. After the cheering subsided, I explained what the separate company was going to be doing in the same building and that if anyone was interested in transfering to the new company that would be fine as long as there was a replacement for their current job. More cheering. I thought to myself looks like we might have some glasses fetishists working here. After telling about the new, in house cafeteria, employee lounge with workout area and added insurance benefits, we adjourned for lunch. Now I had to get some people to run the new business. Finding people that were interested in our "quirk" and were business savvy might be a problem. 
I knew of one guy that was semi retired and was on Eyescene once in awhile that might fill the bill but getting an older person to move from where he had been living for a long time might be tough.
Nah, bad idea. I had to go another route. I would talk to Ralph the company general manager that had been there for many years and see if he could handle the added paper work and management of the new company by hiring some more people and doing the work in house. We could easily add office floor space so that would be no problem. I got hold of him and ran the idea by him. He thought it would be a great idea and he could get the ball rolling immediately. So be it. You can sure get things done easily and quickly if you pay people what they are worth.
While I was talking to Ralph I asked him if they had any older machinery stored away that was capable of doing the higher lens curves and high prism's. He said there were several machines like that in the warehouse. They were in perfect condition but had no value on the current market because they were much slower than the modern machines. I said good, we will be able to put them to good use in the new lab. He said he even had 3 people that were trained to generate very high prescriptions including slab offs with trifocals and the whole bit. I could hardly wait to get the place in operation. 
The old building had plenty of extra room for new facilities but some new addition was required so Ralph got this under way.
I had an idea that I chuckled at to myself whenever I thought of it. I was going to "mess" with the construction crews. Each night after they left I would go over to the lab and add a few more 2x4's or some more floor tiles and such by blinking them in place. Not so much that it was really obvious but enough so it cut the construction time by about 20%. Oh boy, this was fun. If anyone ever noticed the "help" there were never any comments.
When I got home today I felt like we were really making progress and it called for a small at home celebration. Kellye felt the same after getting updated on lab progress. We blinked ourselves to the our opposite genders, and went to change to appropriate evening clothes. We like to dress for dinner once in awhile. She did the usual black tuxedo and I chose a slinky black evening gown with most of my boobs hanging out. Giggle. I also chose a pair of 2 inch platform round toe Louboutin pumps with 8 inch heels. For appropriate glasses I chose a pair of black cats with 1 inch thick minus 10 lenses and 10 prism base out. She added a pair of gun metal finish aviators with minus 20 plano base executive trifocals and frosted beveled edges for more power rings. These had extra thick lenses, also an inch thick.
After dinner I decided to work on getting some help to my old time friends that were having a hard time making ends meet in the current ecomomy. You can't just give these types of people money. They are too proud to take it and the government will take a bunch of it also. I thought about the credit card thing like I had used before but it wouldn't work too well in this case.
Their whole family was nearsighted so I thought a permanently paid up account with a local optometrist might work in part.
That would assure them of glasses for life. What else? Hmmnn. If I do that for other types of stores they shop at someone might wonder where they are getting all the new items they would buy. Bad scene. Ah, I have it. I will establish a high yield money market account in their name that will mysteriously have a small deposit in their name each month. That way no one including the government will get nosy. The account will grow exponentially and soon they will be able to do many things they haven't been able to so far. I will send them an anonymous note informing them of the account. So be it.
Things have been going along very smoothly for 6 months now and the new lab is really busy. We have been getting a very large amount of business from doctors across the country that need extreme lenses for low vision patients. The fetish people have been coming to us with all kinds of strange prescriptions. It really interesting to see what they come up with next.
So far no one has stumped us with one we couldn't do. We recently added a small office off site with a doctor that will help people with GOC requirements. Needless to say, he has been very busy.
The doctor in charge of that office has suggested that a future area of expansion the company might get into is helping glasses fetishists that develop cataracts. They could be helped along to strong glasses by the proper implants. Many times with these operations a patient is left with a small ammount of myopia on purpose after the operation so they will not need glasses for reading. If the patient were to request, they could be left with a large ammount so thick minus glasses would be required.
I could see where this might require hiring a psychiatrist to evaluate the patient so they didn't have remorse. 
The more I think about that whole idea, the more I don't like it. Too much risk of people getting curious.
Here is a much better route to go. Since the doctor in charge of our GOC operation is a good reliable type of guy, I will see if he is interested in my plan. I would give him enough genie power to take a patient that wants a high degree of myopia and when they are under anesthesia, just blink the prescription to the patient but also take all memory of any association with him or the company away. He would also give him the thoughts and memory of having been extremely nearsighted all their life and really enjoying it with absolutely no desire to be without strong glasses.
I talked to the doc and he thought that was a very good idea. While we were talking I blinked his thought away of asking how I could do all this. 
While writing this account has been very interesting and enjoyable the growing business pressure has made me want to get away from everything for awhile. Kellye and I are going back to Hawaii for awhile to lay on the beach and stare at the twin oceans through one inch thick glasses.

https://vision-and-spex.com/fantasia-t408.html