---
title: "gardening part 2 (took long, but here it's finally...)"
author: grimon1
date: '2021-03-01'
categories:
  - grimon1
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: "A chance encounter leads to a deep connection as two individuals reveal their love for eyewear."
---
Helen hadn't said a word about the fact that I constantly wear glasses now, but now as we sat in her living-room opposite of a big mirror that reflected our faces, she smiled at me and said” I just cant recall how your face looks without glasses, I feel almost as if these glasses have always been a part of you. You look very good with your glasses. I hope you never regret” This felt very enchanting to me and I thought about it for a while and after some time asked Helen, how it felt for her to be shortsighted and why she wears contactlenses instead of glasses. She thought about it and answered „Well, when i was 7 years old i got my first glasses. First i didnt like them, but after some time i got used to them and after another while i started enjoyed to wear glasses, maybe just like you enjoy it. I loved to have the lenses in front of my eyes and i kind of felt that they have an optical power and liked that very much. Many of my friends wanted to try my glasses and envied me for having them. I needed stronger glasses over the years and i liked the feeling to be special with my in the end very strong glasses. When i got 18 years old i fell in love with a man that was older than me and he didn‘t seem to like girls with glasses and on one occasion he told me that he did not like a girl that is looking like a rakoon. This hurt me and i decided to wear contacts from then on. From time to time i changed back to glasses for a while but never did this with impartiality again like before this guy told me that he didn’t like that. But when I wear glasses I like the feel they give to me.” 
I was surprised “ What an idiot, he just has got no manners..” and asked her “So why don’t you just wear your glasses when you spend time with me? I would like to see you wearing your glasses” Helen smiled, gave me a kiss on my cheek and went to the bathroom. After 2 minutes she came back wearing a stunning pair of glasses, thin black oval frames with golden hinges. Her eyes were smaller behind the lenses and there were intense powerrings at the sides of the glasses and quite some cutout of her cheeks. “Wow, you look fantastic with these glasses” I said. “Ok, if you like that, I will wear these glasses now when we spend time together. But now tell me, how does it feel for you to wear glasses now. You have not worn glasses before you started working in the garden?” 
“ Well, at first the optical effect of the sunglasses felt like an obstacle to me. But after wearing them for some days I got used to the optical change and on, I think the fourth day, I realised that I more and more longed to feel the glasses and the power they had on my eyes. I loved how my eyes get tense after putting the sunglasses on and how things come more and more into focus . It was even a bit arousing to wear th glasses. And now I have the impression of seeing so much better wearing glasses, though I still need a couple of minutes to accommodate to the lenses after putting them on in the morning. Life seemes to be new and more intense since I wake up every morning, see sharp and normal when first opening my eyes and then discover “my” glasses on the nightstand and theres no other option, put them on stand up, seeing everything fuzzy for two or three minutes and then my vision gets clear. I have a strong wish to wear glasses forever. And now As I see your much stronger glasses I can’t help it, I feel a strange desire to wear stronger glasses.”
Helen shook her head” No you should not. You might hurt your eyes. You seem to tolerate the glasses you wear now really good. Dont exaggerate.”
But the thought stayed in my mind. So after some days before going to work in the garden I looked in the locker with the sunglasses for a stronger pair. I found one that seemed to be stronger than my actual prescription and I put it on. The higher strength was quite noticebal and starting to work they were almoste an obstacle again. After working til noon out in the bright sun I felt a slight headache and a familiar tensenes in my eyes. Looking around in the distance things seemed much sharper and a bit smaller. I was excited by that and kept on working. After some time I got more used to the power of these stronger glasses and in the evening sitting on my bench under the tree and overlooking the garden in the evening sun it felt much better. 
Coming into the house I changed to my non-tanned glasses and was surprised, that my vision was not as good as before. It took some time until it was ok again.
I continued to wear the stronger sunglasses for the next week. My eyes got used to them step by step until it felt completely good wearing them. But wearing my “normal glasses more and more was a nuicance because I was not able to see good in the distance. They were ok to read or do activities that didn’t require to look farther than 2 meters.
So when Helen stayed with me for the weekend I screwed up my courage and confessed to Helen what I had done and asked her to help me find corresponding nontanned glasses. Helen seemed not to be too surprised:“ What are you doing to your eyes Bruno, this is no game. I wished my eyes would have stopped to become more shortsighted when wearing a moderate prescription like you have now” But then she sighed, looked through her filed glasses and after trying 3 pairs we found the corresponding pair to the sunglasses I had been forcing upon my eyes. “ I cant beliefe it Bruno, these are -5.75 and -6.25. This is a huge step. Are you sure you want to wear such strong glasses?” I had the glasses on and saw perfect. I felt a bit abashed after Helens question and took a long look in the mirror. The glasses I wore were smaller than the previous pair, siver oval rims with a dark line of plastic on the topside and black hinges. I noticed the much stronger powerrings and when turning the head I saw a cutout of my faceline behind the glistening glasses. I loved the look so much and I knew I would go to the optician store and get them fitted for perfect fit and then these beatiful strong jewels would be mine. A mad thought but I was unable to resist. I turned to Helen and smiled shyly “ Oh Helen, can I ask you, do you need these glasses as a spare pair” “ No, they are much too weak for me. But for you they are very strong to wear constantly. You will get dependend on wearing them for ever if you wear these for a longer period.” “You mean I can have them?” Helen nodded resignedly.
Wearing these real strong glasses day by day felt like a mild drug. I could not resist to watch my changed features in every mirror I passed. It was like having a new personality, like being more mature.
I enjoyed the summer working and relaxing in the garden. Helen was wearing glasses constantly in the meantime and was very grateful to have gained new selfesteem in wearing them. We had lots of visitors through summer, most of them Helens relatives, friends and collegues. They admired the garden and everybody was farewelled with a gift of fruits or vegetables. My french was close to perfect and Helen asked me if I would like to stay through autumn and winter in her house. She liked having me around and living with me. I now had the role of her housekeeper and cook too. She said, she would miss me if I left.. “some of my friends and relatives think that we have a relationship like an old couple and ask when we are going to marry” Anne said and laughed slightly uneasy. We looked at each other for a while in silence. “Well Helen, I really like being with you in your house and garden and I like you very much, I sure would miss you too. I think its good for me to stay over the cold part of the year...but marrying…. its an exciting and strange thought at the same time.” Helen blushed deeply and put her hand on mine “Bruno, my heart bumps like a steamhammer, what are we talking about, I am 10 years older than you…..” I put my hand on hers and stroked it. More shy silence. I felt like floating “ Helen, this thought to marry you, I cant get it out of my head and it feels very good to me”….” I feel so confused and happy at the same time Bruno I have to go for a walk and get myselfe sorted out, okay?” She got up and left. I sat there confused and felt excited and confused myselfe. Helen until then had been a friend, older than me, very attractive and no thought to start a close relationship, I hadn’t dared to think that there was a chance for me to get closer to her. And now just by talking about the future the question of being married came up. I was sure deep inside that I would be happy to spend the rest of my life with Helen, maybe have children together and go through the ups and downs of life. My heart was bumping. I took care of the dishes and cleaned the house while waiting for Helen to come back. After two hours she came. We sat down on the couch side by side both not able to say a word for a while looking at each other holding hands. Then Helen stroked my cheek and asked “what do you think?” I knew there was a conveniant way to ask for a marriage, but I could not get it together and after a while I said “Helen I would be the happiest man if you become my wife” Helen broke to tears and took me in her arms. After she got a bit more quiet she gave me the first kiss.

https://vision-and-spex.com/gardening-part-2-took-long-but-here-it-s-finally-t1969.html