---
title: "I'm Keeping a Secret:"
author: Specs4ever
date: '2020-02-16'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: A lifelong obsession with glasses leads to a girl's quest to induce her own myopia.
---
I first met Jacob in play school, and then when I went into kindergarten he was in my class. Jacob was the first, although not the last, of my classmates that wore glasses because at the age of 4 when we were in play group Jacob already wore glasses. I don’t know why I found Jacob’s glasses so intriguing. Maybe it was just because it was unusual to see a young child wearing glasses. I am pretty sure that my attraction towards Jacob’s glasses was what started me off on a lifelong obsession towards glasses.
 
Jacob and I were friends for all of our public-school days and by the time we were in grade 6 the lenses in his glasses had gotten much thicker. Back in grade 1 he would take off his glasses and let me try them on. I could actually see fairly well when I looked through his lenses.  By grade 6 however his newest pair of glasses were strong enough that I could no longer force my eyes to see clearly through them. We were both 11 in grade 6 and my obsession towards glasses was so strong that I had talked Jacob into bringing me one of his old pairs of glasses to school and letting me wear them at home sometimes. When he got his newest glasses, Jacob let me keep the pair of glasses that was weak enough for me to see through because, as he said, he could no longer see well enough to use them. I think the truth of the matter was that I was the only one in our class to be a real friend to Jacob. He was not disliked or anything, it was just that I was his closest friend and confident.
 
I could not wear Jacob’s glasses in public. They were noticeably a boy’s frame, and it is rather obvious that I am a girl. But I could wear them when Jacob and I went to the park and then ventured on into the forest behind our homes. I could also wear them when I was at home in my room. I found a website on the internet that informed me that if I wanted to be able to wear glasses I would need to wear a pair of glasses all the time that were stronger than I needed for at least 6 months before I could induce any myopia and there was no way I could possibly do that without my parent’s noticing. I tried everything else that was suggested. When I was alone in my room, I would read a lot and whenever possible I would wear Jacob’s old glasses while reading. Even while wearing Jacobs old glasses I could pull my books very close to the end of my nose and still see clearly.
 
Jacob knew I was trying to force my eyes to need glasses. He told me that wearing glasses when you really needed them was not a whole lot of fun.  He said that when he took off his glasses everything was very blurry, and he could not stand to be without them for more than a few minutes. He also told me that glasses were quite often a problem. They slipped down your nose and you had to push them back up. They steamed up on a hot day, and in cold weather they frosted up when you came inside. And when you wore them all the time like he did your eyes seemed to get worse and you needed new glasses almost every year.  Nothing that Jacob said scared or deterred me from my desire to wear glasses.
 
In grade 7 my breasts started to grow. We were now 12 years old and I was entering puberty. I was thrilled. Finally, I was able to take Jacob’s glasses off after wearing them for a little while and then everything was blurred. The blur did not go away immediately, and even when I could see things better after a little while everything now had sort of fuzzy edges. By this time there were 3 other girls in my class that wore glasses and when I tried my one friend’s glasses on all the fuzziness cleared up, so I was happy that I had become a bit nearsighted. I then talked Jacob into letting me borrow a little stronger pair of his glasses so that I could wear them while reading, and he let me try the three stronger pairs he had. I chose the pair he had been wearing just before he got his newest ones –the ones with the flat lenses.
 
It took me over a month before I could force my eyes to see through those glasses. By the time I could see well enough to read with them on, the first pair of glasses I had borrowed from Jacob were almost perfect for my eyes. Without them I could not see very well anymore. But I didn’t think the lenses looked strong enough in those glasses so I managed to struggle for a couple more months before I told my mom I couldn’t see what the teacher was writing on the board anymore. Mom told me I should have my teacher move me to the front row, and I told her I had already done that. Then mom made me an appointment with her eye doctor. Apparently, my eyesight was bad enough that I should have been wearing glasses a lot sooner, although I think the time I spent practicing by wearing Jacobs much stronger glasses allowed me to get a stronger prescription than what I really needed. I know that after we went to the one-hour optical store and I got my new glasses, when I put them on it took me a little while before I could get my eyes to focus in the distance with them. My glasses were a -3.50D prescription, and both eyes were the same, but for a few days it was a bit of a struggle to wear them all the time. I persevered though, as I knew I would, and within a week I loved the fact that I was a glasses wearer. Jacob wasn’t surprised that I had become a glasses wearer, but he was a little surprised that my lenses were stronger than at least 2 of the other girls in our class  that wore glasses already.
 
Once I got them, I never took my glasses off, except when I was reading. Then I would, whenever I had a chance, put Jacob’s old stronger glasses on and read in my room. Jacob had absolutely no interest in glasses, and he didn’t even know his prescription in his newest pair. I remembered though, as he had told me that it was -9.50D when he first got them. That’s how I figured that the old pair he had given me was likely somewhere around -8D. This pair didn’t look too dissimilar to the new pair of my own, so I was able to wear them around a lot more after I got my own glasses. And the first pair Jacob had given me were of absolutely no use to me, so I gave them back to Jacob.
 
By the time Jacob and I went into grade 8 it had become a lot easier for me to wear Jacob’s old glasses and I did that as often as I possibly could. The only problem now was that I could no longer see very well with my own glasses on and I knew I really should tell my mom. I liked the thicker lenses in the pair I was wearing of Jacob’s and I didn’t want to get a new pair of my own until my eyes were bad enough that I could get a new pair with lenses that were close to the same power.
 
It was getting close to Christmas and I had been wearing Jacob’s glasses for over a month.  I could no longer switch back to my own because I couldn’t see much of anything wearing them. Mom asked me what I wanted for Christmas, and I told her that I would like a new pair of glasses. I had to wear my own glasses to the eye doctor, and when everything was finished, and I had my new -7.50D glasses I was very pleased. My lenses looked just as thick as the ones in Jacob’s pair that I had been wearing. The doctor was quite shocked that I had such a big increase in only 6 or 7 months, but he just chalked it up to puberty and suggested that mom should bring me in for a retest every 6 months.
 
By the time Jacob and I were 18 and were graduating from high school I had not required any more increases. My -7.50D prescription seemed to be perfect for me still, and since I had been checked every 6 months, I knew I had managed to keep my eyes from getting worse by not forcing them to adapt to stronger lenses.  Because he had been a natural myope from a young age Jacob had added another roughly -10D to his already strong prescription and he was now right at -20D. I loved looking at his eyes through the thick, almost myodisc lenses that he had in his glasses. He hated his bad eyes, and he hated the cut in that could be seen through the outer edges of both sides of his lenses. And he hated that his eyes looked so tiny when he looked at himself in a mirror. Jacob had wanted to get contact lenses ever since he was 15, but I had been successful in talking him out of them so far. We had been together as boyfriend and girlfriend since we were both 14 and we had seriously discussed marriage.
 
Jacob was heading off to the local community college to take a course as an ambulance and health care worker. I had been working as a salesclerk in a local store and becoming pregnant prior to marriage had not been high on my priorities. But somehow it happened, and I knew I had a problem when I missed my second period. A drug store pregnancy test confirmed my fears. I was pregnant. Jacob was all for getting married immediately, so we informed both our parents of the impending birth of a grandchild. Jacob and I had been together since first grade, so it was not a huge surprise that we were getting married. But it was a bit of a surprise to us when both our sets of parents suggested that we should wait to get married until after Jacob graduated. My mom and dad seemed to be quite willing to let me live at home once the baby was born, and Jacobs’s parents had no objections as long as Jacobs’s mom could look after the baby sometimes.
 
I think it took about 6 months of being pregnant before I noticed that my eyesight was no longer as good with my glasses as it had been for the last 5 years or so. I went on the internet and I discovered that due to an excess of female hormones in pregnant women it was fairly common for their eyes to become more nearsighted if they were already myopic. And even if they were not already nearsighted, often they would become slightly nearsighted during a pregnancy.  I had been very satisfied with my -7.50D prescription, but I have to admit that at times I would look at Jacob and wish that he and I could trade eyes. I had satisfied my desires to wear glasses, but I did sometimes wish I had borrowed some of Jacob’s even stronger glasses so I could have thicker lenses.
 
Finally, our baby Emily was born. Jacob had a while to go until he graduated so Emily and I were still living with mom and dad and I was breast feeding Emily. Now everything was really blurred in the distance and I knew I needed new glasses badly. Mom looked after Emily while I went off to see the eye doctor, and it didn’t surprise me when he prescribed me new lenses with a -10D prescription. My eye doctor wondered why my prescription had not gone up any further since I had been in grade 8, but then my getting more nearsighted after the birth of a child was not an unusual happening to him.
 
Against the advice of the lady at the optical store I got the same type of lenses that I had worn in my -7.50D glasses. She thought that for my prescription that I should get the thinned-out lenses, but I insisted that I was fine with the thicker ones. They were still able to make my glasses in about an hour, but I was told that this would be the strongest prescription they could make without ordering the finished lenses in. When I saw the new frames I had chosen with the thicker lenses I thought they looked great. This was exactly the look I wanted.
 
Now when Jacob and I made love, which was less frequently than I wished because we were still living with our respective parents, I loved leaving my glasses on my face and looking into his beautiful very nearsighted blue eyes through the -20D lenses in his glasses. This made me so aroused I can hardly describe the feelings. Jacob must have thought he had died and gone to heaven. The more I looked at Jacob wearing his -20D glasses the more I desired the same –20D prescription. I knew that the increased female hormones during my pregnancy had caused a -2.50D increase in my own myopia, and while we both wanted to have 2 children I thought it would be best if we got married before the second child came along. I then began to research female hormone therapy. I was quite confused as there were so many different products. Some were natural herbal supplements, but I wasn’t sure that they would do what I wanted. One supplement that I had been researching was one that was given to men who were trying to transgender to females and I thought that if this combination of estrogen and cortisol worked to change men into women it should do what I wanted.
 
I started off with a low dose of the over the counter female hormone therapy pills and I was quite disappointed when nothing seemed to be happening with my eyesight after about 6 months. But then my breasts started to grow larger. And I was so horny I had to pleasure myself a couple of times a day. Finally, I began to notice that my vision was definitely getting worse. I could no longer see things in the distance very well and it was really hard trying to watch television. I could sort of see the picture, but there was no way I could make out any of the captions if I was watching the news.  I bent my glasses at the nose piece so they came closer to my eyes, and I tightened the earpieces so much that they almost hurt my ears. But this way I managed to squeak a couple more months out of my old glasses.
 
My new glasses were going to be another -2.00D stronger, but I managed to have the doctor increase this by another -0.50D by telling him that my night vision was very poor This time when I went to see my optician she insisted that I could no longer get the same grade of plastic lenses that I had always worn, and now I had to get 1.67 lenses. It was a disappointment to me when I picked up my new glasses 2 weeks later. My new glasses actually looked a bit thinner than my old, weaker ones. But I could no longer see well enough to function with my old glasses and I had no choice but to wear my new ones.
 
I don’t know why I had this compulsion to wear thick glasses, but I did, and it was like a driving force inside of me. I knew that Jacob and I wanted to have another child or 2, and if my eyes got as nearsighted as they had with my first pregnancy then I would gain another -5D that way. But for me to get to -20D meant that I would need to take the female hormone therapy for a while longer – probably until I reached a prescription of at least -15D. I continued taking the hormones, and within a year my new glasses had to be -14D. The lenses were thicker, and I liked wearing them a little better than I had liked my first pair with the high index lenses.
 
Jacob and I were married as soon as he graduated and had a job. With his strong glasses they had been a little apprehensive to hire him to drive an ambulance, but he did end up being on call a lot because he was one of the medics that goes out with the ambulance on special calls where the patient needs extra care. We took our time finding a house to rent because we wanted to live in the same area as our parents lived so that the two moms could act as babysitters while Jacob and I went off to work. I was still taking the hormone therapy and I was very happy when I noticed that my vision seemed to have gotten worse. When I went for another eye exam, I now needed glasses that were -15.50D. I debated about stopping the hormones, but I decided I would wait until I was pregnant again.
 
It didn’t take very long after Jacob, Emily and I were settled in our new house before I missed my period. A quick trip to the drugstore confirmed what I had suspected, and over the next few months Jacob and I prepared the house for the new baby. I was running out of my supply of the hormone pills so I would soon stop taking them. 
 
I don’t know if it was the hormone pills, or if it was just the fact that very nearsighted women often have quite a jump in their prescription during pregnancy. Whatever it was that did the trick didn’t matter to me because I jumped another -5.50 D to end up with a -21D prescription. Now I had stronger glasses than Jacob and I love my new glasses. The prescription did not go all the way to the edge of the frame but was in little circles with a clear edge around the circle area that had the prescription. I liked them, even though they looked a little strange at first. I had run out of the hormone pills a while before Jessica was born because I knew I had gotten a lot more nearsighted and I did not buy any more. But I also knew that there was no sense getting new glasses before her birth as I would likely become even more myopic and there was no sense having to buy 2 pairs of very expensive high prescription glasses. I did struggle a lot to see during the last month of pregnancy, as well as during the first couple of months of breastfeeding Jessica and it was quite a relief when I finally get my new glasses.
 
Jacob was quite surprised that my eyes had become slightly worse than his were. But he knew that was exactly what I had wanted to happen, so he didn’t say anything to either of our parents. He had not known that I had been taking hormone therapy drugs, and I felt that this was something that had best stay my secret.
 
When Emily was between 3 and 4 we discovered that she was getting very close to things before she seemed to be able to see them. We took her to a pediatric ophthalmologist, and it was discovered that Emily was quite nearsighted. Her first glasses, with a -5D prescription, were around the same prescription that Jacob’s first glasses had been. I knew that without any help at all Emily would likely have at least the same prescription as Jacob now had.
 
Two years after Emily got her glasses, when Jessica was around 30 months, we both noticed that she seemed to be having a lot of trouble seeing things. With that, it was off to the same doctor that had prescribed glasses for Emily. Jessica needed a much stronger first prescription than Emily had, and the doctor had no answers as to why Jessica had eyesight that was so much worse than Emily had started out with. Jessica needed glasses with a prescription of -12.50D. I thought about this for a while. When I became pregnant with Jessica, I had still been taking the female hormone therapy. It was a strong possibility that the female hormone therapy had not just made my eyes become more nearsighted but had also made Jessica’s eyes become quite nearsighted. However, that was one secret that I was going to keep forever.
 
Specs4ever
Dec 2018
 
 
 

https://vision-and-spex.com/i-m-keeping-a-secret-t1627.html