---
title: Is There More?
author: Specs4ever
date: '2016-06-19'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: A man's life takes an unexpected turn when he undergoes cataract surgery and embraces his nearsightedness.
---
Things hadn’t been going well for me as I approached my 7th decade.  I was miles away from being to the point I had imagined myself being by this stage of my life.  I was still keeping myself sort of busy writing stories but, as they had been for the last almost 20 years, these stories were mostly fantasies;  stories  that revealed more about my hidden desires than they revealed about anything I really thought of. When I wrote a story about a very nearsighted young girl I became that young girl in my mind, and I wanted nothing more than for the story I was writing to be true.

The one bright spot on the horizon was that I was developing cataracts.  This had been going on for a couple of years now, and the eye doctors that saw me all said that they were not bothering me enough to even consider having a clear lens replacement yet.  But recently my right eye had been getting more and more nearsighted. It had started about a year before and when I had my glasses changed in the spring they were perfect for about 3 or 4 months.  Now it felt like I would need about a diopter or a diopter and a half to bring my vision back to where I would consider it acceptable.  I went to see my eye doctor, who confirmed that I did indeed have what was called a nuclear cataract in my right eye, and even if he prescribed a new prescription for me the myopia would continue increasing, possibly rapidly but glasses would not correct me very well.  After I told him that my left eye was also causing problems for me when driving at night he agreed that I had reached the point where I should have my natural lenses removed and clear lens replacements inserted,

I thought this would be next to impossible to ask for, but just for the heck of it I talked to the surgeon about the possibility of being corrected so that I required a prescription of about -10D for each eye.  I told him I did a lot of work on computers and other electronics and at times had been wearing a +8D pair of reading glasses in order to see what I was doing. And then I told him that if I had a lot of fine close work to do I would put in a +8D contact for my right eye and a +11D for my left and then wear a pair of -10D glasses if I had to do anything at a distance.  He seemed to be a little taken aback by this, but after considering my request he decided that if that is what I wanted then that is what I was going to get, I had to sign a paper saying that I realized that I would be quite nearsighted at my own request after the operation, and I did so willingly.

The measurements that the doctor took were pretty accurate.  I ended up with a prescription of OD -10.00 x -1.50 x 90 and OS -10.50 with a +3D trifocal add.  I was thrilled.  It took a while before I really felt comfortable wearing my glasses around all the guys who had known me for years, but the fact that I had spent quite a bit of money on the nicest thinnest lenses for my glasses helped a lot. And when I was in my shed, working on computers I was happy as could be to be wearing my very thick regular CR39 plastic lensed trifocals.  Sometimes when I felt like it I would still do GOC, and once in a while I would even go out in public wearing my CR39 glasses.  Every once in a while I wondered if I had really solved anything or not, but I have to say that I did feel much happier about life.

I was very young when I first realized I was interested in girls who wore glasses.  But over the years my interest never waned, and actually it grew much deeper with every passing year.  I made lots of mistakes, and I suppose I could have corrected them by leaving my life as I had lived it this far and arranged to live it the way I dreamed of living it. But I couldn’t walk out on 2 young children, so I stayed and made the best of things.  Certainly, if I had left my family and had found a nice high myope I might have enjoyed my life more, but then again, who knows.

One of the things that I had enjoyed a lot as I came closer into my 7th decade was that there were lots and lots of new pictures to be found on the internet of girls with very strong glasses.  If I had only been 20 and single again I was sure that I would have travelled to meet some of these girls.  Maybe I could even have married one.

Having my cataracts removed did help me a lot.  I had written so many stories that were all very similar that I got tired of the same old same old and was able to cut back on my writing.  After all, every story I wrote was for my own satisfaction, and if there was no longer much satisfaction in it for me I was wasting my time. This allowed me a little more free time, and while some might ask if I didn’t miss writing I have to tell them that because I could wear thick glasses myself all the time now the urges I had to put fictional stories down on paper were no longer needed to satisfy me. But I had a few unfinished stories that I still planned to get around to when I had the time.

My 7th decade flew by and before I could blink my eyes (behind my thick CR39 -10D lenses of course) I was pretty close to my 8th decade.  I had started to think a lot about going on, and while I had never been a very religious person I had completely accepted that life ended. However now I started to think a bit. Was this all there is?  Do we simply die? What if we are reborn?  Could I possibly come back?

I didn’t know the answer to those questions and if I ever found out I would never be able to tell anyone.  But I have to admit that I spent a lot of time praying that if I came back I could come back as a very nearsighted female.

All this thinking was likely a complete waste of time, but as I lay in the hospital bed with an oxygen tube feeding my lungs and a saline drip onto my arm I thought to myself that it might as well end now.  That night, drugged with morphine I felt my life slip away and as I left life as I had known it my mind kept going “Female, very myopic,  female, very myopic, love glasses over and over again.”

----------------------------------------------------------------------

“Push Emily.  A little harder now. Push.  Breathe like we learned in class honey.  There it is. I can see the head coming out now.” Justin Davidson told his wife.

And with that Sophie Davidson popped out into the world.  Sophie was a healthy, beautiful baby and her parents Justin and Emily were thrilled to have her as their first born.  She was a surprisingly quiet baby, and made very little fuss when feeding.  She certainly did like to eat though and it was all that Emily could do to produce enough breast milk to satisfy her.  Once in a while they had to feed Sophie with a bottle of formulae and Sophie had no problem with that.

Around the time that Emily had to take Sophie for her 6 month weigh in and general checkup both Justin and Emily seemed to notice that Sophie did not appear to be looking at very much. As long as they made a few noises Sophie would crawl to the side of the playpen where they were, but if they came up quietly Sophie didn’t seem to realize that anyone was there. And when Emily looked at Sophie she was positive that she detected a blank, unfocused look in Sophie’s eyes.  Emily decided to speak with her pediatrician about what she had seemingly noticed. She did that and the pediatrician took a close look at Sophie’s eyes.  He also felt that there was a problem and he referred Emily to a well-known pediatric Ophthalmologist for further testing.  

The ophthalmologist did extensive testing and he indeed discovered that Sophie was quite nearsighted.  Emily was distraught over this and could not understand how it was possible that her darling baby was very shortsighted. After all, she had her eyes operated on to rid her of her myopia.

The doctor explained to Emily that even though she had her myopia surgically corrected the dna for her myopia was still in her genetic makeup.  He went on to explain that now more and more children were being born with myopia because the human lifestyle had evolved to a point where reading and computer work was the order of the day.  Very little was done out in the outside world and most children had no reason to be able to see far off into the distance. And, if for some reason they did require reasonably good distance vision later in life then of course there were different operations available to correct the varying degrees of myopic.

The surgeon went on to tell Emily that since the Ebola epidemic that had recently been brought under control after over 10 years of devastation in the third world countries it had also been discovered that anyone who had been given the Ebola vaccine that had been developed around 2015 or 2016 had also become extremely shortsighted as a result.  In the third world countries survivors of Ebola had been few and far between until the general population of the world had been inoculated.  The vaccine had been discovered because doctors had found that blood transfusions from these early Ebola survivors into fresh Ebola patients had given the new Ebola victims a chance to live and recover.  Originally the disease had gotten a hold on North America when nurses at a Dallas hospital that had treated a man for Ebola became infected themselves.   The patient had come to the hospital suffering from a high fever, and no one had recognized the possibility of Ebola so he had been treated with antibiotics and sent home, where he got sicker and returned to the hospital where he eventually died.  Soon it was discovered that nurses who had treated him became ill, and although their lives were saved, after they recovered, anyone who had been ill was discovered to have become extremely nearsighted.  Apparently the virus affected the soft tissue of the body, and caused the person’s eyeball to elongate creating a very nearsighted person. As a side effect these Ebola survivors passed their high myopia along to any of their children, and now 10 years later there were many more extremely nearsighted children in schools.

All this didn’t make Emily feel any better about having passed her myopia on to Sophie.  But it didn’t change the fact that Sophie was extremely shortsighted and required some form of correction immediately.  The ophthalmologist prescribed a pair of glasses with a prescription of -17.50D for Sophie, and told her parents that this was only an initial first prescription. He advised Emily and Justin that as she grew older her prescription would likely need to be increased.

Because Sophie, who was now 7 months old, was so small a special harness was purchased from an optical supply company to hold the glasses on Sophie’s head. The straps were of nylon, and were adjustable and a semi flexible frame to hold the lenses was fastened to the straps where the temples would normally be fastened. The strap that came over the head was fastened at the bridge of the frame, and then there was another strap that held the frame holding the lenses down by going under Sophie’s chin. This was rather a cumbersome affair to take on and off, but Sophie soon realized that as long as she had the lenses in front of her eyes she could see.  Sophie then cooperated with her parents and did not struggle whenever they put it on her head. 

By the time Sophie turned 2 she was able to wear glasses with normal frames.  Her prescription had climbed slightly, but according to the ophthalmologist this was expected to happen because now she could help him fine tune the prescription that the auto refractor had given him.  He had been pretty close with his first prescription because now her prescription was at -18.25D.  Her safety lenses were really not even that thick in the small eye sized frame she wore,

By age 3 Sophie was a very normal child. She was starting to talk, although she was not really talking in sentences yet.  Her development was exactly the same as any other child that had normal eyesight.  Justin and Emily had wanted at least 2 children, so after conferring with their doctor they decided that they would take another chance and see if they ended up with another highly myopic child, which they wouldn’t have minded as they loved Sophie very much.  But of course they would rather have had a second child with good eyesight.

Sophie was almost 4 when her sister Rebecca was born.  By now Sophie was well ahead of the rest of the kids at her preschool.  Her glasses never seemed to be an issue, and her most recent eye exam showed that her prescription was still right around the -18.25D mark.

As Rebecca reached her first birthday both Justin and Emily were able to breathe a sigh of relief.  They had not noticed any problems with Rebecca’s vision, and a visit to the same pediatric ophthalmologist that saw Sophie confirmed that Rebecca had normal eyesight for a one year old.  Sophie did require a little bit of an increase to get her as close to 20/20 as possible and her new glasses were going to be -19.50D.  In a child’s frame her new lenses didn’t really look any stronger or thicker than her old ones and Sophie carried on with her new glasses the same as she always had. By now she was in junior kindergarten, and her teacher told Emily and Justin that Sophie was a delight to have in her class.

Sophie was a bit over 5 years old when Emily gave birth to a son.  Daniel was named after Emily’s dad, who had recently passed away and Justin and Emily had chosen the name Daniel because it could have easily been used if the baby had been a girl.  Again they watched little Danny like a hawk to see if he had any problems with his eyesight and to their relief they did not notice anything wrong.  This was confirmed by a visit to the ophthalmologist when Danny was a little over a year old.  Rebecca’s eyes were checked as well, and there were no signs of any problems.  Sophie was examined again, and at age 6 her prescription had reached slightly over the -20D mark.

Over the next few years Sophie completed her public schooling and she went through junior high. She had a few small increases during this time and by the time she was 15 and about to graduate from junior high her prescription was right around -23D.  She had been wearing myodiscs ever since she went into grade 7, and she seemed to be able to see everything very well, so her strong prescription was not really a problem. Her eye doctor had suggested that Sophie should try wearing contact lenses when she was 12, and again when she was 14, but Sophie had told him that she liked wearing her glasses and could see no benefits from wearing contacts.  

Sophie didn’t know if the reason she liked wearing glasses so much was because she had worn them forever.  A few of the other girls she hung around with had gotten contacts, and after they wore them for a while they all professed to love them and they would never go back to wearing glasses.  But Sophie enjoyed being able to take her glasses off and disappear into a word of blur. To Sophie there was a feeling of arousal – sexual arousal at that – when she placed her glasses at the tip of her nose and slid them slowly to the bridge of her nose.  There was no better feeling in the world.

Around the time Sophie was 15 she started to investigate myopia. It was a natural thing to do because she was so very nearsighted, but there also seemed to be a flame burning inside of her to know all there was to know about myopia.  As she did more and more research Sophie discovered that there was a vibrant online community of both men and women who were lovers of glasses.  Some of these people had even gone in to have expensive operations to make them very nearsighted, or for the cheaper operation that consisted of the inner ocular lens removal with no lens replacement which left them very farsighted.  There were also a number of men and women who wore contact lenses under strong glasses to give them the feeling of being either very nearsighted or very farsighted, using glasses of the appropriate prescription so they could see well enough to function.

There were also a number of websites that had fictional stories about glasses and glasses wearers.  Sophie found a number of old stories that had supposedly been written and posted by a man named specs4ever, who had passed on right around the time that Sophie was born. Sophie started to read some of these old stories and as she went through the couple of hundred stories she noticed as she was reading that she could almost tell you the ending of the story after reading the first few sentences. She thought this was strange, so she started to investigate this deceased storyteller.  On some of the different websites she found that there were a few people still around that had actually known the man. One gentleman who she conversed with online told her a lot about the man, and even told her his real name and the general area where he had lived, along with his old e mail address.

Sophie was a very intelligent young lady. She knew that most of the free document storage in the world had been online since way before she was born.  This document storage had required an e mail address and a password in order for a person to access it.  Just for the heck of it she typed the e mail address into all of the older online document storage sites. She hit the jackpot with Dropbox when she typed in the e mail address and a request for a password popped up. Sophie was smart enough to know that if she entered the wrong password 3 times in a row she would be locked out, but she had read enough of the stories that she knew that there was a general theme to many of them.  The first password she tried was: IwishIwas-20D.  This password was rejected, so Sophie went for the next one that popped into her mind and she tried: Iwant2be-20D. Sophie was surprised and actually thrilled when the screen opened up.

As Sophie looked through the contents of the drop box account she realized that she had hit a bit of a treasure trove. There were a dozen stories in various stages of completion, and another 15 stories that he had intended to put into an e book before the man had died.

Sophie didn’t know just what to do about the finished stories, so she contacted the man who had given her most of the information.  He was thrilled to hear that there were still some stories out there that had never before been posted, and he helped Sophie place a couple of the stories on a website devoted to glasses fiction.  The stories were well received, and Sophie was considered to be a bit of a hero for posting them.

As Sophie read the unfinished stories she would sit there and write a few lines to try to continue the story.  There were a lot of deletes as she did this, but gradually she brought 2 of the stories that had been almost finished to the point of completion.  Then she posted one of the stories as a coauthor as well as one of the old unpublished stories.  Her continuation of the writing was again well received, and before long Sophie had finished all of the unfinished stories but one.

The last story had caused Sophie a lot of consternation. If it were true it was entirely possible that she was the reincarnation of this gentleman. That would certainly explain why Sophie was so familiar with over 200 of his stories. It would also explain why the password for his drop box just materialized in her mind.  But Sophie didn’t really believe in reincarnation.

Still, there were a lot of things to be explained. Sophie had no doubt that this old man had been whispering:  “female, very myopic, love glasses” as he passed away.  Sophie had, using the internet, discovered that this old man had passed on just hours before she was born – and on the exact same day.  She was born a female, and she was very myopic.  She also loved her glasses.  She seemingly knew the ending of every story he had ever written.  Was all of this just a coincidence?

Sophie still couldn’t come to a conclusion and she was afraid to discuss this with anyone because she knew that no one would believe her. They would think she was a freak.  Finally Sophie decided that it was very probable that she was the reincarnation of this gentleman.  No one needed to know about this and that way no one would question her sanity.  She could easily continue on in life the way this gentleman had obviously wanted her to – as a very nearsighted female who loved her glasses.

The very next time Sophie went for an eye exam as she sat in the chair she pulled her head back slightly from the phorpter. As her ophthalmologist clicked the lenses and asked her which one was best she made sure he had gone to the strongest lens that she could see through before she told him that that was the better choice. And of course she chose red over green every time he asked.

“Well Sophie, your prescription has increased quite a lot this time. But you are still growing, so that is understandable.  Here is your new prescription,” The doctor said.

Sophie looked at the slip.  OD -25.50 x -0.75 x 95 and OS -25.25 x -1.00 x 85.  She thought to herself, “He would be so happy to be me.”

Sophie and Specs4ever
November 2014.




e

https://vision-and-spex.com/is-there-more-t786.html