---
title: "Justin's feud over wearing glasses."
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-05-08'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: A young boy fights against his controlling mother's refusal to let him wear his glasses full-time.
---
In 2012 11 year old Justin was prescribed his first pair of glasses for mild Myopia. Justin was told at the time he could get by with just wearing his glasses to see the board at school or other far away things. Justin wore his glasses only in school for the first couple of years. In 2014 Justin's prescription had increased to a -1.75 and -2. Justin and his single Mom disagreed on how much he should wear his glasses. One thought all the time and the other thought only as needed. The odd thing is Justin was the one who favored full time wear while his Mom thought doing so would make the prescription increase faster. Justin's Mom was determined he be perfect and wearing glasses all the time meant he wasn't. Justin's Mom was very much a "Helicopter Parent" demanding straight A's or he would get grounded for on B. Even though Justin was very mature for his age his Mom insisted on being in the exam room with him at any Doctors appointment. At age 15 Justin had intended to ask his eye Dr. about how much he should wear his glasses but as usual him Mom cut him off. While the various eye appointments Justin's Mom was always telling him to pick the less strong lens when deciding between 1 and 2. Due to his Mom's parenting style Justin's Dad who tried to be very active in his life but was cut off by his Mom every chance she got sued for custody. The couple drew a female judge notorious for always siding with the woman in any divorce action and this case was no exception. At 17 in 2018 Justin's glasses were now -2 and -2.25 with his Mom still insisting he wear them as little as possible. Justin's Mom did let him get his drivers license and his Dad got him a car and even paid the insurance. Justin's Dad was smart enough to keep the car in his name which his Mom didn't like. Since his Mom had to work on his 18th birthday she threw Justin a party typical of the way she does things with 8 of her friends and only 2 of his friends. In March of this year Justin's prescription was now 2.50 in both eyes. On his 18th birthday in April  with his Mom gone Justin and his Dad staged their plan. Justin's Mom thinking a plan could happen took a pair of side cutters and cut his car key in half. What his Mom didn't know is Justin's Dad had kept a spare key the whole time. Justin's Dad waited until his Mom left for work at which time he brought the spare key over. Justin left his Mom a note saying as an adult it was his decision to move in with his Dad. Justin's Mom was furious when she got the note and called police who told her there was nothing they could do. Justin's Mom tried to contact the original judge who would later be removed from the bench and disbarred for her conduct said legally there was nothing she could do. Justin has only lived with his Dad for about a month and is much happier. Justin is going to graduate high school later this month close to if not at the top of his class. Justin as soon as he started living with his Dad started wearing glasses all the time. His Dad even scheduled Justin a follow up appointment with his eye Dr. so Justin could ask abut wearing glasses time at which time he was told he should have been doing so since at least age 13 or 14. The Dr. told Justin that he knew the attitude his Mom had and she was wrong. Justin and his Dad are now mulling over several college scholarship offers to decide what's best for him. Justin asked his Dad which one he thought was best? Justin's Dad told him do what's best for you and I will help in the decision any way I can but it is your decision. Justin had became so used to his Mom making decisions for him he really didn't know how to act.

https://vision-and-spex.com/justin-s-feud-over-wearing-glasses-t1290.html