---
title: Lies are Dangerous
author: grimon1
date: '2018-10-19'
categories:
  - grimon1
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: A chance encounter on a train leads to a transformative experience with a stranger's glasses.
---
I was almost 14 years old, when I sat on a train travelling from Norway where I live with my Dad to Southweden, where my Mom lives. I was sitting in a compartment for my own for hours, reading looking out into the byhushing landscape until we stopped on a small station a couple of Stations before reaching Oslo. A midaged woman came in and asked me, if she could have a seat. I invited her to come in. She was wearing glasses that seemed to make her eyes smaller. We didn’t talk too much,she was more the age of my teachers at school and I was a schoolgirl. After a while, the sun started to shine into our side of the train, she changed to sunglasses and put her glasses in a case and back into her purse at it seemed to me. Two stations later, she said goodbye, grabed her purse and suitcase and left the compartment. I was on my own again and dozed on towards . On the next stop I looked outside, to see where I was. Looking back into my compartment i saw, that beside the seat where the lady had her purse, there was something like a precious box. I looked closer and found the glasses case that the lady had deposited her glasses after putting on her sunglasses. She must have missed the purse and the case had fallen down. I wondered what to do with these glasses, the lady sure would miss her glasses, so I would give them to the conductor, when he passes by. But I was nosy and took a look inside at the glasses. They looked precious and I wanted to take a closer lok at them. I never before had prescription glasses in my hands. They attracted me. They were oval shaped, had grey rims and silver tempels that ended in black earpieces. I was a bit afraid of putting them on as if they might harm me. But I couldn’t resist. After putting them on things around looked much smaller and quite distorted and bend. I moved them forth and back on my face, they seemed to fit comfortable and it felt ok to have them on. Though not seeing good at all I wanted to keep them on for a minute , fascinated by the expierience of wearing them. So I didn’t realize at once, that a young couple came into my compartment and sat down opposite of me. They said hello and asked if I mind them to disturb my solitarity.  I stuttered ”No not at all” and took the glasses of in embarrassment. The female part of the couple said”You should not take your glasses of just because you have company, leave them on please” I could have explained the situation and that I wanted to give them to the conductor but felt embarrassed and ashamed to have worn someone elses glasses just for fun and to admit this to the couple. So I put them on again. I felt like trapped, I was unable to see things clear through them,  but the couple surely thought that these glasses  belong to me and that I could not see well without them. I felt so unsecure. The couple, Their names were Caren and Bosse, started a friendly conversation with me, talked about their lives and home and jobs and so did I. After a while Caren looked at me with a big smile and said, “I really like your glasses they fit you so perfect. Most people with glasses look a bit strange to me, but your glasses fit perfect and give you a nice and mature appearance” Her partner agreed and I was very embarrased and thanked for the compliments. I was by then wearing the glasses for more than one hour and I realised, that my ability to see through them was a bit better than in the beginning.  Especially looking out of the train in the distance I could see fairly well. And how I saw with the ladys glasses on was a bit intoxicating, lights and colours seemed brighter, my vision was centered. Though still not seeing  clear at all I started to like the feeling of wearing the glasses. The couple stayed with me the whole time till my destination, Malmö. We kept on talking the whole time and had a stimulating conversation. Caren had a sister that was wearing glasses too and so she realized  that my glasses were quite strong, “ You must be half blind if you take them off” she said and I had no chance but to agree” Yes I have them on from early morning till I go to bed” I lied.  Coming closer to Malmö  I realised, that there was another problem coming closer. My mom would be on the  platform where my train arrived and I had told her in which waggon I would be seated. How could I take of the glasses of before she saw me. I hoped there would be a possibility for that, after saying goodbye to Bosse and Caren and before leaving the train. But there would be a lot of people on their way out, I would have to put the glasses off in midst of them. When the train reached the station and came to a halt I said goodby to my company and took my rucksack and suitcase, but Caren said” hey Bosse, you should help Lisa with her luggage” I tried to fend this offer off, but Bosse insisted and he brought my suitcase out to the platform and there  stood my mom. She saw me, ran to me and hugged and kissed me” My little girl, did you have a good journey” She took my suitcase and we left the station. No word about the glasses! I felt very confused. We talked a lot while going to the Bus and driving to moms flat. After arriving we had dinner and sat opposite to each other. My mom took a close look at me and asked with a smile” Since when do you wear glasses Lisa, you forgot to tell me on our phonedates!? Anyway they suite you very good, when I saw you coming out of the  train it looked so natural that I had no second thought about it” I looked at her- my vision through the lenses had gotten better again, I was able to see things but not in the normal way, still out of focus- and thoughts raced through my head, should I tell the truth, that I had found the glasses on the train? I was a bit scared, because I had to admit something wrong. Or should I lie again. My parents didn’t talk with each other since I was 8 years old, so mom would not find out that I was lying. So I there came my next fatal lie” A couple of months ago I realized that I had troubles to read or see the ball in games properly or see the TV o k, and the eyedoctor said, that on beginning of puberty this can happen.” Mom asked if I was anoyed by the glasses and I told her that it was ok for me and that I was accustomed to the glasses now. After that the glasses were not mentioned anymore. We went out to see a film in the cinemas . When sitting there in the dark I had the glasses on for more than 8 hours. My eyes started feeling hot and strained, I felt the weight of the glasses on my nose and regreted that I neglected to be honest and say the truth and give the glasses to the lost and found of the railway company. The lady sure would miss her glasses very much and now I force my eyes to look through them and will have to continue so for the next 10 weeks of my summerholiday. My god what has happened to me. 
The film distracted me from my  cloudy thoughts it was a funny comedy and together with mom I laughed a lot. On our way home we giggled a lot like two young teenagers. I went to bed and after 12 hours of constant wearing I took “my glasses” off and fell asleep. 
Next morning I slept long and mom called me to come to breakfast. I went out of bed, brushed my teeth and put some water in my face and went to greet mom in the kitchen, where she sat at the table. She looked at me coming in smiled at me and asked “Lisa where are your glasses?” I slaped my hand at my mouth and said, “ my god, this usually doesn’t happen to me” Going back to my bedroom I realised, that my eyes felt like being overworked. I had no desire to put the glasses back on. But I had to. With glasses on- my vision again was quite impaired like the day before, when I first tried them out- I came back to braekfast. The glasses felt like a menace to me but I had no alternative. After having breakfast my vision had reached the clearness of the evening before again and after mom had left for work I was on my own. What should I do? If I take the glasses off til mom comes back and then on again it would be hard to adapt to the glasses. No option. So I left them on and tried work on the computer. I had to get my head far away from the screen until I was able to see halfway clear. Later I left the flat and walked through town, looked through shops and sat at the harbour. The longer I had the glasses on, I got better habituated to them. My vision was not as good as without them, but it felt more and more ok. Back home I did some housework and prepared supper. Mom came home and while talking with her and making plans for a our journey to spain we wanted to start to next week I felt a bit better with the glasses on. My mom asked, if I had prescription sunglasses and whilst I had none, she gave me money to get some next day. In the glasses case was a little card with the prescription, I would use that to tell the optician, what I needed. It said -4,75 right and -5,25 left.
We had a very good time in spain, after wearing the glasses for one week, my vision was almost as good as without glasses and I managed then to read with the glasses on. I had no more regrets about my foolishness that had brought me into wearing glasses. I enjoyed the frequent compliments people made and planned to stop wearing glasses as soon as I go on my way home to dad. I was now used to put the glasses on as soon as I opened my eyes in the morning and take them off before sleeping.
But after eight weeks back in Malmö then, I woke up in the morning and accidentially tossed the glasses off my nightstand.  Trying to find them I realised, that my vision was a complete blur. I felt so helpless, it took me a bit of effort and time till I found the glasses. After putting them on I had for the first time the sensation that they are really my glasses now and that they are part of me, maybe forever. I sat there in bed and thought about it. Looking around I saw everything crystalclear and sharp, my eyes had stopped feeling strained since weeks, the glasses felt good. This one nosy  act of trying someone elses glasses has led to be dependent on these glasses now. Did I want that? I don’t know, but its ok. 
Driving home I really was the glasswearin girl now, that the couple coming into the compartment 10 weeks ago had thought that I was.
On the small station where the lady who had lost her glasses had left the train 10 weeks ago I had fallen asleep in the corner of my compartment, my head towards the window. After waking up, I realised somebody new was in the compartment. It was the lady that had lost her glasses. She sat in the other corner reading a book. She had glasses on that were almost identical to mine. So she must have ordered the same pair again after the loss. After a while she looked at me and greeted friendly. I felt ashamed and guilty. “It seems to me that we have met before” she said and looked friendly at me. “What a burdon for a young girl to have such severe myopia, isnt it? But your glasses suit you very good. When I was your age my myopia started and I had to wear glasses, over the years I needed stronger and stronger glasses. I lost a pair some weeks ago but needed a stronger prescription anyway” She left the train and said goodby. Severe myopia-that sounded new to me. I was a bit disturbed by that. Next hurdle would be my dad. I had written him a postcard and had mentioned, that I wear glasses now. Coming home he was glad to see me again. We had supper and talked a lot. The glasses were not mentioned. Later, we sat out on the nearby view over the Sognefjord, my Dad wondered how I could become shortsighted in both, my Moms and his famyly nobody was myop. And now his girl had to wear such strong glasses? I lied to him, that the eyedoctor in Malmö had explained, that this happens in puberty frequently. 
Since this summer I wear glasses constantly, I am so used to it that most times I don’t even “feel” that I wear glasses, they are part of me. What disturbs me is the fact that my lie that puberty is the reason for becoming shortsighted was becoming reality, over the timeperiod between 14 and 21, while I got mature my myopia increased. I now have to wear -9,5 right and 10.25  left. In a book I read about the phenomen of selffullfilling prophecy. Is that the reason?

https://vision-and-spex.com/lies-are-dangerous-t1076.html