---
title: Mark n Max, Myopic Mates
author: joshd090
date: '2021-10-04'
categories:
  - joshd090
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: Two brothers discover they both need glasses, but only one is excited while the other is resistant.
---
My name is Mark and Max is my identical twin brother. We get along really well and consider ourselves really good friends. When we were in 4th grade we both started noticing it was getting harder to see the board in class. At first we thought this was normal, but soon learned it was not when our friend Sam came to school wearing glasses and let us try them on. When I wore Sam’s glasses I could see perfectly.  Then I passed them to Max so he could try them. When he put them on he was a bit shocked. He asked Sam if he could wear them to the bathroom and see how he looked in the mirror. Sam said sure, and Max slipped out of the classroom. Once in the hallway Max took off the glasses so as not to be seen wearing them until he got to the boys room. At the mirror he put the glasses back on and hated the way he looked. 

While Max was in the bathroom, Sam and I were talking and I told him how much better everything looked while I wore his glasses. I asked him if they were strong. He told me his doctor said his prescription was only -1.25 in both eyes but that he still should wear them all the time. At this point, Max came back from the bathroom and quickly handed Sam back his glasses. He looked a bit scared and nervous. Our teacher then said break was over and it was time to return to the lesson. So we did. 

That night after mom got us into bed, I told Max how much better I could see when I wore Sam’s glasses and that I think that I should get an eye exam. Max didn’t like the sound of that and said that Sam’s glasses didn’t even make a difference. I could see that Max was scared about the possibility of needing glasses, but I was actually pretty excited. I had always liked how glasses looked on other people and it would be nice to need them myself. 

The next morning Max was taking a bit longer to get ready for school so mom decided to take me so I wouldn’t be late, and have dad bring Max on the way to work. On the way to school I told mom about my experience with Sam’s glasses. She said she would schedule an eye exam for me and my brother. After school that day mom told me and Max that we had eye exams scheduled for the next day after school. Max looked at me with a glare.

The next day it was time for our eye exams. I went first and had a bit of a hard time reading the eye chart. The eye doctor put some lenses in front of my eyes until it was clear. The doctor wrote some numbers of a piece of paper and handed it to my mom and then said why don’t I go look at some glasses while he took a look at my brother. As I walked out the door I heard him tell my mom my prescription was -1.25 in both eyes and that I should probably wear my glasses all the time unless I was playing sports or messing around with my friends.

While I looked for glasses, Max got his eyes checked. Soon enough his exam was completed and Max came out of the exam room crying. I went over to show mom the glasses I’d chosen, I asked Max what’s wrong, and he completely freaked out at me to they point he was practically screaming. Mom told me that Max also needs glasses and REALLY doesn’t want them. Apparently his eyesight was more than twice as bad as mine with a prescription of -3.00 in his right, and -3.25 in his left. He would need to wear correction all the time, and the doctor was quite surprised that he had gone so long without getting glasses. Mom tried to calm Max down but no matter how much she tried, Max was NOT going to get a pair of glasses. The doctor finally stepped in and recommended Max try contact lenses. Mom told him that if he calmed down now, she would let him try them. He did and went back in with the doctor to get fitted. Mom also offered me contacts but I declined since i was actually happy about getting glasses. 20 minutes Max came out of the exam room with a smile gleaming across his face. “I can see so well!!!!” He said to me and mom. I was a bit jealous as my glasses weren’t going to be ready for another 30 minutes. While we waited we went to the food court and got some dinner. After we went back to the glasses store and picked up my glasses. I was absolutely amazed at how clear everything was. 

The next day at school my friends thought my new glasses were so cool. Since we were twins everybody asked Max where his glasses were, and he said he didn’t need them and that his vision was perfect. I knew that was a lie, in fact he was blinder than me. That first day at school was really nice for both of us since we could easily see what our teacher was writing on the board. 

The rest of the year was pretty uneventful. The first thing Max did every morning was go to the bathroom and put in his contacts. Soon he was really good at it, but he had to be because he didn’t have a pair of glasses. Soon it was time for our next eye exam. Both of our prescriptions increased. I now needed a -2.00 in my right eye and a -1.75 in my left, and Max now needed -3.75 in both eyes. The doctor recommended Max get a pair of glasses to wear at night after he took out his contacts, but mom didn’t want to spend a lot of money on glasses for him which he was never gonna wear. I was also offered contacts again but decided to stick to glasses. I think people actually liked that only one of us wore glasses because it was super easy to tell us apart. Mark wore glasses, Max had perfect vision (or so they thought). 

The next few years went by with the typical updates to our prescriptions. But the summer before high school, Max and I both had huge growth spurts, and now were both almost 6 feet tall. Our dicks had also grown and being the well hung teens we were, I often saw girls glance down at the bulge that showed I was packing. I’m not gonna lie, our physical anatomy made it really easy to get girls, and we often would make out with them at parties and would also frequently get hand jobs but we had never had sex yet. The downside of this growth spurt was that our eyesight had gotten worse. By our sophomore year of high school my prescription was -4.50 in my right eye and -4.00 in my left. I was now a 3 season athlete so I got contacts at my last eye exam so I could see during sports and not have my glasses get in the way. I opted for daily lenses since I honestly preferred my glasses and would only put in my contacts right before practice or a game. Max's eyesight was absolutely horrible by this pointing our lives. His prescription was -7.75 in his right eye and -6.50 in his left with -0.75 a astigmatism in both. Somehow, he still didn't have a pair of glasses and completely relied on his bi-weekly contacts to see the world. 

While Max and I really were best friends, we were also twin brothers, and occasionally would get on each other's nerves. One day, Max did something that annoyed me so I decided to pull a prank on him. One night after max had went to bed I got up and went to the bathroom and switched the caps on his contact lens case, effectively switching each eye's power. In the morning Max woke up and immediately went to put in his contacts like normal. After inserting them he kept blinking, trying to clear them, but nothing worked. We went to school, where Max still blinking like crazy made our classmates worried. People kept asking him if everything was alright, but since he had kept his horrible vision a secret for all this time, he was determined not to say there was something wrong with his contacts. He told people there was something in his eye, and when anybody offered to take a look, he said no thanks and swiftly went to the bathroom to try and figure it out. He poked around in his eye and finally decided to try switching the eyes. He switched his contacts and suddenly everything was fixed. He knew I had tampered with them, so he decided to get back at me.

He went to my gym locker, and found the pair of contacts I had brought with me to wear during baseball practice that day, and put them in his pocket and left them there for the rest of the day. When it was time for practice I went to my locker, changed into my uniform, and looked for my contacts. But I couldn't find them! Now, coach had a very strict sunglasses policy on the field. Since I normally wore contacts during practice, my sunglasses were not prescription, and I couldn't wear my prescription glasses on the field because they were not 'active sports glasses' or sunglasses. So basically I was now forced to go to practice blind. Normally, I am one of the better batters on the team, but during our practice game, I was striking out at everyone. Coach was getting rather pissed with me since I was messing up so much, and benched me. He was so upset with me that he wouldn't even let me explain what was going on. After practice I put my glasses back on and saw a text from Max saying: "how was practice? I bet you didn't see that coming!" I was pissed. But I couldn't stay pissed for long, because I had also gotten a text from Hannah, a girl I had been hooking up with, saying her parents had taken her sister on a college tour and that she had the house to herself and that I should come over. I told her I'd pick up some dinner and head right over. 

We had a lot of fun that night and soon things were starting to get frisky. Hannah had un buckled my belt, unbuttoned my pants and had taken my penis out of the hole in the front of my underwear. I took off her bra as she rubbed my dick. Soon it was clear we were about to loose our virginities to each other. Hannah handed me a condom and said go put it on. I went into her bathroom to put on the condom, where I saw a pair of glasses on the counter. I took off my glasses and put on the glasses on the counter. They were practically the same prescription as mine. I popped my head out of the bathroom and said: "Hannah, you wear glasses?" She said yeah, but I'm wearing contacts right now. I told her "I bet you'd look even hotter wearing them." She quickly took our her lenses and asked me to toss her the glasses. As I tossed them to her, she squinted trying to make out the glasses out of the blur. I didn't know my penis could get any harder. She said: "now get that condom on and do me." There was only one problem. My erect penis was too big for the condom she had. As 16 year old, the last thing we wanted was an unexpected pregnancy, so we decided it would be better if we quickly ran out to the shop and bought a larger size. We quickly put on some clothes and jumped in my car to go buy a larger box. Within a matter of 20 minutes we were back in her bed having sex. It was an incredible night. So incredible I had forgotten all about blind baseball practice, and had pretty much forgiven Max for what he had done. I was a changed man.

When I got home I couldn't wait to tell Max all about my first time. He was a bit jealous but overall happy for me. The next few months were uneventful. It was summer vacation, and I had been lifeguarding at our local pool. I usually opted to wear contacts on duty since it was easier to wear normal sunglasses. I was still dating Hannah, and we were having the best time together. Max was working at a summer camp and had been becoming friendly with a girl from our school named Molly who also worked there. Now to understand the scope of what is about to happen, you have to understand that Max had worn contacts every day since grade 4, and 7 years later, nobody outside of our family knew about how bad his eyesight was. You also must remember that he still didn't have a pair of glasses. Anyways, Max had been working up the courage to ask Molly out on a date, and finally decided to ask her to dinner at a nice Italian restaurant. She said yes, and Max was really excited for his date with Molly all week. The date was planned for Saturday night. Everything was great up until Max started getting ready for the date. 

Max was taking a shower minding his own business when the water randomly shut off. This had never happened before so he looked up at the shower head, and right then a high pressure burst of water sprayed him right in the face. Not only did the water hit Max in the face, but it hit him right in the eye and dislodged his right contact lens. I heard a scream for help: "Mark! I need help!" I opened the bathroom door and found Max on his hands and knees, ass in the air, the tip of his dick flaccidly pressed against the floor, his face only about an inch away from it. "What the fuck am I looking at?" I said, as Max's head turned towards me, squinting, said "I've lost my contacts." "I'm too blind to see them, can you take a look Mark?" Max stood up and put a towel around his waist. I bent down and search the floor of the shower, but the lenses had gone down the drain. Now for a normal contact lens wearer this wouldn't be such a problem, but Max was no such wearer. Max didn't have a backup pair of glasses and by this point his contact lens usage had become so routine that we was on one of those lens subscriptions to save money. This meant that every 12 weeks he would receive 2 boxes of 6 2-week lenses which would last him perfectly until the next box came. The problem was the lenses he lost were the last ones for that 12 week period and the next set weren't supposed to arrive for another 10 days. 

"How can I go on my date like this? I'm blind as fuck! I won't be able to see her, let alone my surroundings! I’m fucked! And I was so excited for tonight. I thought Molly and I would have a really good connection.” I tried to reassure Max by telling him he could always call her and reschedule. “Are you crazy? and tell her what? ‘Hey Molly, so I’m actually blind and am so vein that I only wear contact lenses and don’t have a pair of glasses so i need to cancel our date because i lost my lenses and can’t see a goddam thing.’ Hell no, i am not telling her that!” And then an idea popped into Max’s head. “Why don’t you go on my date for me Mark? Put in your contacts and she’ll never know the difference!” Now who’s the crazy one? I told Max there was no way I’d go on his date for him. It was too risky! Max begged me, “Bro I’m supposed to pick Molly up in an hour. I really like this girl, I don’t want to lose her. Please help me! I’ll owe you big time!” I agreed. I jumped in the shower for a quick rinse and then went to the sink to put in my contacts. I went back to our bedroom put on the outfit Max was gonna wear, and asked him how I looked. “Fuck off!” He said. But then i thought of something, if my brother was gonna be Molly’s Boyfriend one day, how could he not remember their first date. I asked Max if he thought of this and he said yes. He dialed my phone with his, and put his line on mute. Then he put my phone in my pocket and said: “I’ll be listening to everything! We got this!” So Max handed me his wallet and I became Max for the evening. 

On the way to pick up Molly I kept reminding myself that I was doing this for my brother, and that it would all turn out alright in the end. I got to Molly’s house and rang the doorbell. A couple seconds later, an extremely hot girl opened the door. It was very clear this was a date! I offered her my hand and we walked to my car. “What a gentleman, Max.” “Thanks” I responded, knowing I was really Mark. We drove the restaurant and had a really nice time together. Molly may have been beautiful but she was also very down to earth. She was perfect for my brother! Dinner went really well. During the meal it came up that I had never seen Molly’s favorite movie, so she suggested we go back to her place and watch it. So we did. She made some popcorn and we started watching the movie. The bright lights from the screen coupled with my nerves of what might happen next were making my eyes dry. I started blinking a lot which Molly must have noticed because she asked me if everything was alright. I said I think I just need a glass of water. I went to the kitchen to fill my cup, and contemplated just coming clean now to avoid any problems, but Max told me that he really liked this girl and he didn’t want me to blow it for him. So i carried on, heck, maybe she wasn’t as eager to take things up a notch and I was just paranoid. I returned to the couch and continued to watch the movie.

About 10 minutes later, the movie started getting really boring, and Molly said “this parts kinda boring” and proceeded to sit on my lap facing me. Her perky breasts were right in my face. Now it was clear she liked me, or shall I say, Max. I had to come clean so I didn’t ruin it for my brother, but her boobs were so round and looked so soft. I felt my dick getting harder. I was in a very difficult spot. And then Molly leaned in for a kiss.

STOP! I yelled.

“What? What’s going on? I thought you liked that” she said as she glanced at my cock.

“No I I I I did, it’s just that, it’s just that, oh fuck, it’s just that I’m not Max!” I’m Mark!

Molly got off my lap in shock. Still baffled she asked me to explain everything. So I did. I told her about how in elementary school Max and I had an eye exam and were found to be myopic. While I was excited to wear glasses, Max was not, and despite his eyes being worse than mine, elected for contacts and never got a pair of glasses. I told her how even as our eyes got worse, Max still insisted on not getting a pair of glasses. I told her how his contacts came out in the shower. I told her how blind he was. I told her how much he liked her. 

“I’m actually surprised you didn’t notice, Molly. I get that Max and I are identical twins but we’re not photocopies.” I said to her. “Funny you should say that… I actually can’t tell the difference. I mean normally I could but i too am having a contact malfunction.” “You wear contacts Molly?” I asked.”Yeah, I started wearing glasses and contacts right before high school. I pretty much wear glasses all the time except at school. I just prefer them, but my mom insists I wear contacts at school.” She explained how she just got a new prescription and her glasses were getting new lenses, but when she put in her contacts one was ripped and before she could put in another, i had rung the doorbell. She decided to just go bare eyed. Her prescription was only -1.50 in both eyes so it really wasn’t that hard.

What a funny situation we were founding ourselves in. But what was I supposed to do about Max? “Hang on! I have an idea! Do you know Max’s prescription?” She asked. I told her somewhere around -8.00 or -9.00, but I wasn’t  really sure exactly. Molly ran upstairs. 5 minutes later she came back, her eyes wider than before, she must have put in her contacts. In her hand was a glasses case. “I think I have something which will help” she said. I asked her what was in her hands, and she said that she grabbed a pair of her brother’s old glasses. He was also super blind and the prescription should be close enough to Max’s so that he should be able to see until he got his next round of contacts. “I guess we’re going back my house then,” I said. “I think so. Plus Max agreed to a date with me, and I want that date.” So we got in the car and headed back to my place. Max and my parents had gone out for the weekend so Max was home alone. Soon I pulled into the driveway and we walked up to the house. 

I opened the front door. “Who’s there?” I heard. Max was sitting in the living room squinting at us. “Mom and Dad?” I guess all he saw was just two big blobs. “No it’s me and Max,” said Molly with a grin. “Molly is that you?” Max asked as he tried squinting even harder. “I guess mark told you about my little predicament.” Molly handed Max the glasses case, “here, try these.” Max opened it up and put on the glasses. “I’ll give you two some privacy,” I said, and headed downstairs to the basement to watch some TV. “How do they work?” Molly asked, “Certainly much better, wow you look amazing tonight!” Max said. Despite being a little disoriented by the fact he was wearing strong glasses for the first time, he thanked Molly for the glasses. “Anything for a fellow myope.” She said. Max asked Molly what she meant by that, and she told him about her eyesight and the somewhat blurry night she had had before putting in some contacts. She told him how hot he looked in glasses. Then Max told Molly: “I still can’t get over how small everything looks with them.” “Even these?” Asked Molly, as she pulled down the neck line of her top, revealing her round, perky, firm looking breasts. “Is this too big?” Replied max as he pulled out his 7 inch hard cock. “I’ll take that as a no” said Molly as she took off her top. Max unhooked her bra, and the two started making out. After a bit of tongue on tongue action, max suggested they go upstairs and take things to be bedroom. Max grabbed one of the large condoms from my bedside table, slipped it on his dick and joined Molly in the bed. He was on top. Molly looked up at him and said, “I think these might get in the way” and took the glasses off max’s face and set them aside. She could see max starting to look a little lost, which apparently Molly found super attractive. Soon the two had lost their vicinities to each other. After max came he went to clean himself up, and Molly went to take out her contacts. They returned the bed, both being too blind to watch TV decided to talk and spoon until they fell asleep. I decided to sleep in the basement that night to give them some space. 

The next morning, max and molly were gleaming. Why wouldn’t they be? After breakfast, with the glasses Molly leant him, Max drove her home. The two became a couple and continued to date. At our next eye exam, both max and I had minimal changes to our prescriptions. I didn’t need any changes in sphere, but had developed -0.50 diopters of astigmatism in both of my eyes. Max’s prescription also only increased a little, now being R -8.50 -1.25 150 L -8.00 -0.75 110. This time Max decided to get a pair of glasses, obviously with the thinnest lenses possible. For the most part, he continued to wear contacts, but from time to time people would see him in his glasses. It no longer was a secret that Max had bad eyesight. 

So that’s my story. The story of me and my twin brother. The story of Mark and Max, myopic mates.

https://vision-and-spex.com/mark-n-max-myopic-mates-t2118.html