---
title: 'My Crazy Sister:'
author: Specs4ever
date: '2016-06-28'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

I am positive my sister is crazy. She has just got to be insane.  Sheila’s best friend at school has worn glasses ever since she was about 5 years old. And now Sheila has talked Emily into giving her an old pair of her glasses and letting her wear them.  Sheila is going to ruin her eyes, I just know it.

It has been about a month since Sheila started to wear Emily’s old glasses.  I really didn’t think she would be able to keep it up. Emily’s new glasses look to be really strong, much stronger than the ones she gave to Sheila.  But the ones Sheila has been wearing look quite strong as well.  I don’t know how much longer Sheila can keep this up without getting caught.  Everyone at school has now seen Sheila wearing glasses, and they have gotten used to seeing her in class and walking in the halls with glasses on.  They all think she really needs them. And every night after school Sheila leaves her glasses on until mom gets home from work.  If dad was home like he was before he was deployed she would never be able to get away with it.  The only reason that she has been able to do it so far is because I am now, at age 13, old enough to look after her after school instead of us having to go to a sitter.  Next year, after she turns 12 I will be able to stay and play with my friends instead of rushing home to be here for my crazy sister because she will be old enough to be by herself.

I really should have told mom about Sheila wearing Emily’s old glasses. But I just don’t have the heart.  I really like how Emily looks wearing her new glasses, and I also really like my sister’s appearance wearing Emily’s old glasses.

Sheila has now been wearing Emily’s old glasses most of the time for over 2 months.  I asked her how she could possibly see with them on as well as she seems to be able to and she told me that now she couldn’t see much without them.  She proved it to me when she took them off and had to walk right up to a few feet from the kitchen calendar before she could see the dates on it clearly.  I suggested that she should tell mom so she could have her eyes examined and get her own glasses, but she just told me that she really liked Emily’s glasses and she wanted to wear them a little while longer before she got her own.

Really, part of me said I should squeal on Sheila.  But I know I won’t because I love the looks of those glasses on Sheila’s face.  And, of all the girls in the whole school, Emily is the only one that I would ever consider asking out. Emily is fairly cute, but with her glasses on she is gorgeous to me.  Maybe my sister is not the only crazy one in our family after all,  There has got to be something wrong with me when I get horny just thinking about Emily’s glasses.

It is really funny now every Sunday when mom is off work and is home all day.  Sheila tries to either stay in her room all day, or else she makes up an excuse to go out to a girlfriend’s house.  I think that after almost 3 months of wearing Emily’s glasses all the time it must have really affected Sheila’s eyes because she now seems to squint a lot when she isn’t wearing them.  I know whenever she leaves on Sundays to go to a friend’s house Sheila puts the glasses on as soon as she gets down the street and away from the house.  She let me try on Emily’s old glasses one day last week, and they are so strong I could barely make my eyes focus through them. I really can’t believe that Sheila can see better when she is wearing them than she can without them.

It has been well over 4 months since Sheila started to wear glasses.  She is really helpless without them when we go outside and try to walk anywhere that she isn’t familiar with.  Now she doesn’t even squint to try to see things better. Without the glasses on her face her eyes have a blank unfocused look. I asked her why she doesn’t squint anymore and she told me that it doesn’t help now.  I know mom has been so busy at work that she hardly even notices us, but now the marks on the side of Sheila’s nose are so visible to me that I can’t understand why mom hasn’t noticed them.

Emily came to school today wearing a new pair of glasses. It has only been around 6 months since she got her last new pair. I asked her why they were so much thicker than her old ones and she told me that her prescription jumped a lot. She told me her new glasses were -12D. I didn’t want her to think that I didn’t like her glasses so I told her she looked really good wearing them and she blushed a little when she thanked me for the compliment.

I really don’t believe it. It took Sheila almost a month to talk Emily into letting her wear her first pair of old glasses.  It has only been a couple of days since Emily got her newest glasses and Sheila already has talked her into letting her wear her other pair. I thought they looked like about the thickest and strongest pair of glasses I had ever seen until I saw Emily’s new ones.  I liked them on Emily’s face, but now that they are perched on my sister’s nose I think they look just fabulous on her. I wonder how much longer Sheila will be able to fool mom before she gets caught.

It has been about 3 weeks since Sheila started to wear the thicker glasses she got from Emily.  Tonight at supper she told mom that she thought she needed her eyes tested, so mom told her she would call a doctor and make an appointment. Sheila surprised me when she told mom that she had already called to make an appointment with the doctor that one of her friends used. The appointment was in 2 days and while Mom was a little surprised all she did was ask me if I could go to the appointment with my sister.  Of course I agreed and mom wrote a note for both of us to get off school early. 

Sheila went into the doctor’s office wearing the second pair she had gotten from Emily. I couldn’t believe that the doctor would find out that Sheila needed this prescription and I told her so.  But Sheila told me that she had asked around and all of the glasses wearers she had talked to told her that this one doctor just gave everyone the strongest prescription they could tolerate.  She said that he would check the power of the lenses that she had on, and then he would go up from there. And I guess that was exactly what he did.  Emily’s old glasses were around -10.00D and when he finished with Sheila her new prescription was going to be -11D.  Sheila was a little disappointed because she wanted to wear glasses that were as strong as Emily’s but I told her that as long as she had her own glasses that she could wear in front of mom she could go back for another eye exam in a few months. Sheila thought that was a good idea.

Mom had given me 2 signed checks. I gave the doctor’s office the first one and they made it out for the $65.00 the exam cost.  Then we went to an optical store.  Sheila wanted to have exactly the same frame as Emily’s new frame, but she couldn’t find one just like it.  I told her the frame she was wearing looked really nice so she was able to find one exactly like it. Her prescription was too strong for their one hour service and it was going to take about 3 days for her new glasses to be ready.  Since the frames were the same it was going to be easy for Sheila to wear Emily’s old glasses home to show mom, and then when she got her new glasses in 3 days mom would never notice the thicker lenses.

Mom was horrified when she saw how thick Emily’s old glasses looked on Sheila’s face. She just couldn’t believe that Sheila’s eyes were that bad.  But after she looked at the bill for the eye exam, along with the copy of Sheila’s -11D prescription and the bill for her new glasses she had to believe it.  And Sheila went on and on about how wonderful it was to be able to see things again and mom had to believe her.  I know that she told dad about how bad Sheila’s eyes were when they talked late that night and dad wanted to do a video call with all of us as he usually did on Sunday’s.

By Sunday when dad was online Sheila had picked up her new -11D glasses. And she was correct. Mom had not noticed that they were any different than the ones Sheila had gotten from Emily.  I could tell that the lenses were thicker, but I knew that they were not the same glasses.  Dad was a little surprised when he talked to Sheila on the video call that her glasses were so thick, but all he said was that if that is what she needed to see then that is what she would have to wear.  

Sheila loved wearing her new glasses. She always wore them pushed tight to the bridge of her nose, and whenever she was reading her face was so close to the pages of her book that it was a wonder that she could turn the pages without them brushing against her glasses. I asked her if she was trying to ruin her eyes and was not at all surprised when she just answered yes.  I told you she was crazy.  No one in their right mind would try to make themselves really, really nearsighted on purpose.

It only took another three months of Sheila wearing her new glasses all of the time before she told mom that she needed to have her eyes checked again.  Mom was aghast at the thought that Sheila might need even thicker glasses but she eventually told Sheila to go ahead and make another appointment.  Again, mom asked me to go along with Sheila for her appointment, and we both got to take the afternoon off school again.  I thought about it and I realized that Sheila had completely ruined her eyes in only 9 months of wearing glasses.

When Sheila came out of the doctor’s office she showed me her new prescription slip. She was as happy as she could be as she told me that she had needed a much stronger increase than she thought she would have been able to get.  I looked at the new prescription and I almost choked when I saw the numbers.  I didn’t know a lot about myopia, but I knew enough to tell that -13.50D was a terribly strong prescription.

As we walked to the optical store I tried to talk to Sheila to tell her that she would regret what she was doing when she grew older. But she shut me up when she told me that she loved the looks of really thick glasses on people and she was determined that she was going to wear even thicker glasses herself as soon as she could.

At the optical store even the opticians were amazed that Sheila had increased by -2.50D in only 3 months. They told us that they had never seen anyone that had that big a jump in their prescription in such a short period of time.  And, of course we couldn’t get her new glasses for 3 or 4 days again.  This time we had to go home with Sheila still wearing her old glasses and we had to tell mom that Sheila needed such a strong prescription now that it would take a few days for her new glasses to come in.

When Sheila got her new glasses Emily was amazed that Sheila now had a stronger prescription than she did.   Emily was normal – compared to Sheila. Emily did not want her glasses to be any stronger.  And now Sheila was even weirder. She wore her glasses in the shower, and when mom asked her why she said she couldn’t see well enough to shower without them. I think she even slept wearing her glasses because now mom went into her bedroom almost every night and took them off her face and put them on the bedside table. Every morning Sheila would tell mom that she should just leave her glasses on, because she couldn’t see well enough to find them in the morning.

I was very fond of Emily, and I loved her appearance in glasses. I loved Sheila as a sister, and I really liked her glasses a lot, but she was worrying me with her desires to have really strong glasses.  After all she wasn’t even 12 years old yet.  I decided I would go on the internet and investigate what was going on with Sheila – if the internet could tell me.  I did find out a lot of information.  Yes, it was highly unusual for someone to wear a pair of -6.50D glasses as their first glasses, especially if they had not needed glasses.  I came to the conclusion that Sheila had probably been nearsighted naturally to the extent of about -2D, and she had been able to overcome the other -4.50D just with her young accommodation.  Then after 5 months of wearing these -6.50D glasses she only wore Emily’s -10D glasses for less than a month.  There was absolutely no good explanation as to why she was able to wear them and then have her eye exam show that now she needed -11D. The only thought there was that she had been able to accommodate as much as 5D of increased power.  This was a high amount, but it is the only possible way this could be explained.  And then in another 3 months she might have come up as high as -9D wearing the -11D glasses, so the reason she tested at -13.50 was entirely due to her powers of accommodation.  I had to come to the conclusion that there was no other legitimate way that this could have occurred.

I posted Sheila’s progression and my observations online on a web site devoted to myopia.  Most of the responses agreed with my thoughts, although there were a few who were downright nasty in telling me I was full of shit and there was no way that this scenario could have occurred.  One older chap asked me for my e mail address, and I had set up a dummy one when I originally signed in online so I wasn’t afraid to give it to him. He wrote me a very interesting note and after reading it I realized that his idea’s had a lot of merit.

According to this chap, myopia has no hard and fast rules.  He told me of a 16 year old son of a friend of his who had stubbornly refused to have an eye exam for quite a few months after his friend knew without a doubt that his son had very poor eyesight. When the father grew upset with his son and finally dragged his son to see an eye doctor the son came away with a first time prescription of -18D.  He knew that the son had some further myopic progression as he went into his 20’s, and when he had last seen the boy his prescription was in the low -20D range. He also told me of a young lady in an orphanage that they thought was retarded, but when she was 18 she had an eye exam and her inability to learn was due to the fact that she required a – 12D prescription. Once she got her first glasses, which needed to be increased in power rapidly over the next few months, she was found to actually be quite intelligent.

He then went on to suggest that it was very possible that my sister’s myopia came on rapidly and then increased quickly.  He suggested that when she started to wear Emily’s glasses she likely needed a prescription of around – 4D, maybe a little more.  His main reason for that thought was that since Sheila had not been wearing the -6.50D glasses full time all the time it was highly likely that she really was fairly shortsighted. In order for induced myopia to work apparently you need to wear the glasses all the time. Then, after 5 months of wearing Emily’s glasses, her prescription had likely gone up naturally to be quite a bit closer to the -10D prescription that was in the second pair of glasses that Emily had loaned her.  He went on to say that it was extremely unlikely that anyone could fool an eye doctor into giving them a prescription that was much more than -1.00D over what they needed, and it was more of a possibility that the highest amount that an eye doctor would have let her go over would be more likely to be -0.50D.  And for her to increase another -2D or even -2.50D in only three months was not out of the question at all. He suggested that Sheila probably had a form of progressive myopia that could cause her to have some further large increases in the near future.

I didn’t like the idea that Sheila had progressive myopia, but this person’s explanation made sense in light of what had transpired so far.  It was a little strange that Sheila would have embraced her myopia so well, and would have expressed a desire for stronger and stronger glasses.  But stranger things have happened.  And he also asked me if Sheila had large eyes.  I wrote back and answered him that she did. Before she got glasses Sheila always had people comment on how beautiful her big brown eyes were.  His reply to that was that big eyes were often an indicator that the person was going to be very myopic. He sent me a link to an article about a girl in England who was extremely myopic who had big eyes, and the article went on to say that this was a common factor in many high myopes.  At least this chap had tried to make sense of things for me. Now I wondered if my sister was normal, just very shortsighted and I was the crazy one because I was in love with Emily mostly because she had fairly thick glasses.

In my quest to find out exactly what had gone on when Sheila borrowed Emily’s -6.50D glasses I asked Sheila if she had really needed Emily’s glasses when she first borrowed them, and her answer was that she had been having a lot of trouble seeing things for a couple of months before she borrowed the glasses.  Then she went on to tell me that she felt her eyes were getting worse and worse after she started wearing the glasses. When she got the second pair of Emily’s glasses she felt they were just perfect for her eyes and she could see well again.  She admitted that the first prescription that she got from the eye doctor felt a little bit strong to her, but it didn’t take very long before her eyes had gotten used to those glasses.  Then by the time another 3 months had passed things had become really blurry to her again.  What really scared me was when she told me that in only a bit more than the 2 months since she had gotten her latest glasses she had discovered that things had gotten really blurry again and she was going to tell mom that her eyes had gotten worse again. 

Sheila had just turned 12, and she already needed stronger glasses.  I thought that this must be worrying her, but when I talked to her she didn’t seem to be bothered by needing even thicker lenses, even though in about a year she had gone from no glasses at all to having to wear the thickest glasses in the whole school.  Her glasses were now thicker than any of the teachers wore and although I felt a little sorry for her I could hardly wait to see how thick her next pair of glasses was going to be.

I didn’t need to go to the eye doctor with Sheila this time, but I asked mom if I could go, and she wrote me a note to get off school with Sheila.  Sheila’s new prescription was going to be -15.50D for both eyes.  At the optical store they didn’t want to sell her the regular plastic lenses, but since they knew that she would possibly be back within a few months for even stronger glasses they decided that they would take her lenses and flatten off the rear of the lens to give the lens a myodisc appearance. Sheila was fine with this but when she selected a frame that had the temple hinges set well back she asked the optician if they could make the lenses as thick as possible as long as the temples would close.

When the new glasses came in the lens filled the whole opening and there was really nothing flattened off at the rear.  I really liked the appearance of these glasses because the lens thickness was fairly well hidden unless you really looked and then you could see that the lenses were at least ¾” thick.  They had polished the edges of the lenses, but as soon as Sheila walked out into the sunshine she realized that she didn’t like the polished effect. The optician then removed the lenses from the frame and sanded off the polished part with very fine sandpaper.   Sheila liked this effect better.

The optometrist that Sheila had gone to wanted Sheila to see an ophthalmologist because her myopia was now so high.  He made Sheila an appointment with a specialist that he knew, and I went with her to that appointment because she was going to have her eyes dilated and she might need some assistance to get home.  The specialist was the same eye doctor that Emily always went to, and Emily told Sheila that she had just been in to see him and that he was really good.  Emily had not gotten her new glasses yet, but her prescription had jumped from 12D up to -14D.  When she told us that, I could hardly wait for Emily to pick up her new glasses, which she did in a couple more days.  Once I saw Emily in her new glasses I was in love with her all over again and I decided I was going to ask her if she would go to a party that one of my classmates was having the following weekend.

Emily asked her parents if she could go out with me, and they agreed providing we were back by 11PM. We went off to the party and we had a pretty good time.  It was just a house party, and a lot of the kids were being stupid and drinking beer and coolers, but Emily and I didn’t drink anything and just necked and fooled around a little.  Emily has a fairly decent chest size and she let me stroke her breast under her sweater, which made me pretty horney, but I didn’t try to do anything more with her than she let me try.

I was now 14, and Emily and Sheila were 12, but Emily was almost 13.  I really liked Emily as a person and we now were spending a lot of our free time together.  Because of Sheila needing such strong glasses it was easy to talk about eyesight with Emily.  She had gotten her first glasses when she was 5 years old and had small, but regular increases over the years.  There had been a couple of changes that came before the -6.50D prescription that had been in the first glasses that Emily had given Sheila to wear, but since Emily had just had her lenses changed in her old frame the -6.50D pair was the lowest power glasses that she was able to give Sheila until after she was prescribed the -10D pair that she had also given to Sheila. After Emily had gotten her -10D prescription her increases had been higher than they normally were and her new -14D glasses looked wonderful on her face.

Emily’s progression jumped by another -2D when she was between 14 and 15, but then it slowed down to around -1D or less a year after that.  When she was 21 and we were married Emily had a prescription of -20D and she was now wearing high index lenses so that her glasses looked as thin as a -20D prescription possibly could.  Sheila however had not been as fortunate.  Her prescription at age 12 had been -15.50D and within a year she was wearing myodiscs with a prescription of around -18D.  By the time she was 20 and was going to be the maid of honor for Emily at our wedding Sheila’s prescription had climbed to around -32D and her biconcave double myodiscs looked rather unusual on her face.  But Sheila didn’t seem to mind the fact that her uncorrected eyesight was nonexistent, and she really seemed to like the unusual appearance that her glasses gave her. The 2 specialists that she saw for her extreme myopia felt that her eyesight would continue to deteriorate until she was either almost blind, or possibly completely blind, but they were unable to explain why it was that she seemed to have much better corrected visual acuity than other people that had a much lower prescription than Sheila did. Her corrected eyesight was even better than Emily’s, and Emily seemed able to see quite well.

I don’t know if Sheila accelerated her own myopia or if the second scenario that she was just a girl with progressive myopia was true. If she had caused her myopia to spiral out of control, then she was indeed my crazy sister.  But if her extreme myopia was caused naturally then for sure I was the crazy one because of my love for both hers and Emily’s myopia.

Specs4ever
November 2014

https://vision-and-spex.com/my-crazy-sister-t788.html
