---
title: MY STORY WITH MICKAEL (gay story, with some parts talking about sex)
author: glasses glasses thick
date: '2021-11-28'
categories:
  - glasses glasses thick
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

First of all, I would like to apologise for my bad English. My mother tongue is French. My story is real, it is not an invention. I replaced the sexual parts by some ***, to post it here. I hope you will enjoy it. I’m waiting for your comments. (Let me know if I must remove some words like f**k or c**k).


MICKAEL STORY :

When I was 20 years old (I’m 49 years old now), I used to go every Saturday evening in gay disco in Geneva. I was wearing contact lenses all the time and nobody knows me with glasses. I was wearing my glasses only from bathroom to bed on evenings and from bed to bathroom in the morning. While I was dancing, I noticed a guy looking at me many times, and smiling at me. He was in disco almost every Saturday night, like me. I never replied to his smiles because I had no interest in him. Few months after the first time I noticed him, I was with a good friend and we decided to leave the disco and go to a sauna club, open until 7am. We came in, took off our clothes, and went hanging out in the sauna. Suddenly, I saw the guy from the disco in toilets. He was washing his hands. He's name is Mickael. I saw him with thick glasses on his nose. I never saw him wearing glasses before. I just noticed he blinked a lot. I thought maybe because of the smoke in the club. At this time, I was so ashamed by my obsession or fetishism for glasses, much more than now. Thanks to V&S and others websites who made me feel better about it. I thought be the only one in this world, attracted by high myopic or high hyperopic guys.

I said : Hello Mickael. I knew his name, because we had a friend in common and he asked my friend about me. So my friend introduced us. I remembered nothing but his name. 
He said hello Fabrice. My second question was : Do you come here often ? He said : sometimes. I said : I never saw you with your glasses. Don't worry, no judgements, I also wear thick glasses at home and contact lenses when I’m out of my house. So, don’t be embarrassed with me about your coke bottles. He reply : I have problems with my contacts and cornea, my eyes hurts. I’m having a bacteria and I must wear my glasses for few weeks. I said : I’m fine with it, you look handsome wearing your glasses and I feel less alone to have to wear such coke bottle glasses. I guess you can imagine how hard my c**k was !!! Just with a towel over my body. I thought my c**k will explode very soon. He said : Thanks, but I hate my glasses, they are so thick. I’m ugly with them on. I said : not at all, you are handsome like this. We both think the same about our ugly glasses, don't worry about your glasses with me. 
He was wearing glasses around -23, I guess. I’m not an expert in lenses but I was right. You will read his prescription later in this story. And 28 years ago, no online shops to buy cheap glasses. High index lenses were too expensive. I live in Geneva, Switzerland, one of the most expensive city and I remember the price of my glasses, bought in an optical store in town when I was 19 years old. I remember it because it was the first time I had to pay myself my glasses, price was 850 Swiss francs (+ or - 805€) with the cheapest frames and low index lenses. I guess the price would have been around 1500 Swiss francs or even more, for high index lenses and branded frames. His glasses were like mines, an emergency pair, with low index lenses, in case of something happen with his contacts. He was wearing them like me, only in bed, and to go to the toilets at night. Immediately, as a glasses fetish man, I noticed the thickness of his lenses. The edges almost touched the skin of his temples. I would say 1 inch (25 mm). I let you imagine my c**k, just looking to his lenses and his very tiny eyes behind them. And OH MY GOD, all those power rings.

I said : we saw each other many times in disco during past months, and we never talked together. It's time to start. I would have done anything to spend time with him, looking to his small eyes and his strong glasses. I didn't have to pray to him. He said : with pleasure. So we started walking around in the sauna, talking about all and nothing. Then I asked him : do you want to go in a quiet and private place with me ? Before I finished my sentence, he said : I want, but I’m too shy to ask you. So come on, let's find a free cabin. We went to a cabin,  and started to kiss passionately. Mickael was very attracted to me, he had been staring at me all the time for months and I was very attracted too, by his thick glasses only.
We kissed maybe half hour before starting more.
 I'm a top, versatile only to please my partner when needed. My dream is to get f****d by a guy with thick glasses on his nose. I don’t know why. At this moment, I was staring to his face (his glasses to tell the truth) while s*****g him and I thought : God I hope he's a top and he will f**k me soon ! Maybe I will soon live my dream. I was wrong, he was a bottom. we started to ****************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************Just before the final explosion, I took his glasses off and put them on my nose. An incredible feeling  in my whole body and mind. I never have the same feeling again, I can’t explain it. 
While we cuddled, I thought to myself : He should think I'm crazy to take off his glasses and wear them before the end of our sex session.. I didn't say nothing to him about my glasses’s obsession. Then we kissed again and again, his eyes were closed but I kept my eyes opened to see his incredible strong lenses and his tiny eyes. Wearing his glasses should be the same feeling like look through a tunnel. We went to shower, he kept his glasses on in the shower. I asked him : do you want I hold your glasses while you take a shower ? He said : no, I need them to see what I’m doing. I watched him nonstop, his eyes were closed under the water,  so I had so more time to look to his thick glasses. I went with him to the cloakroom, he dressed (5 more minutes to watch him, sorry to watch his glasses) We said goodbye, see you next Saturday in disco. I went back in the sauna to find my friend and to tell him I’m leaving and going back home.

Next Saturday, I was so excited to see him again in glasses. I was so disappointed when he came in, no glasses on. We talked together few minutes and I came back with my friends.
I saw Mickael almost every Saturday evening, he was wearing his contact lenses. Never more with coke bottles on his nose. No more fun together.

I meet him another time, maybe 5 or 6 years ago. I saw him on a gay website. I said : hello, do you remember me. We chatted and exchange phone numbers. I wrote him an sms, ask him about his vision, contact lenses and glasses (of course !!!!), if he remember his prescription when we had sex. He told me it was -23 and now -26. And his contact lenses are -19.75. I asked him if he had surgery because he wasn’t wearing glasses on his profile picture. He said : I can’t have surgery because of my bad retina. I said to myself : thank god, maybe I could see him again wearing strong glasses.

I wanted to see him again glasses on, so I asked him for a face pic with his glasses on. He sent me a pic wearing reading glasses, around +1 or +1.50. I was shocked. That's not what I was expecting ! I asked him about his real glasses. He said he's wearing Contact for a long time and don't have glasses in his right prescription. I asked him if he wants to meet me again to have fun together. He said yes. I said : in the same place like our first time ? He said : yes. Meeting on the afternoon 4pm in the sauna. Last time I was in this sauna was when I fucked with him. 
I was less ashamed 6 years ago, about my glasses obsession. I wanted to fuck with Mickael, but only if he's wearing his thick glasses. 
I told him by sms : strong glasses excited me so much. It was the first time I told to somebody that I love guys with thick glasses on (except online on some glasses websites). So I asked him to come with his real strong glasses on (not his reading glasses). He said : no, never, I can’t see well with them. Long time I didn’t upgrade my lenses, they are too weak now. I said : come with your contacts on and your glasses. You will switch between them in the cabin when nobody else can see you. He said ok.
The day arrived. Before our meeting, I thought : If he forget his contact lenses box, or the cleaning liquid, I should bring some. I had the feeling he doesn't want wear his glasses, because he's ashamed about them. And I was right.
We meet in the sauna, went to Jacuzzi, started to kiss, to cuddle. We stayed more than an hour in the water, then in a cabin. I asked him to put his glasses on, because I love guys with thick glasses on, as I wrote you. I don’t know if you remember this. He said : I forgot the contact lenses's box. I said : Wait for me a minute, I will be right back. I went to cloakroom, take the box full of fresh liquid. I was wearing my contact at this time. I said : That's my box, my contacts are on, you don't want me to take it off ? He said : no. So use my box with the fresh liquid, take off your contacts and wear your glasses. He did it.
His frames were small metal oval, with high index lenses in. His RX was higher than the first time I met him, but his new lenses looks much less strong than the other time. I didn’t have the same feeling with his new glasses, compared to his old glasses. The edges were not so thick, but with a lot of power rings. I was still very excited. Like the first time, we cuddle, we kiss, we s**k each others c**k.  I started to ******************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
I didn't have time to take his glasses off and wear them, with our excitation, things were very fast. I hesitated to wear my coke bottles too, to make him feel not alone with thick glasses on. I asked him before going in the cabin, if he wants to see me with my glasses on. He said : no, I’m sure you look much better without glasses. I would have loved to play with Mickael with our glasses, if his answer was yes. I would have loved he has the same obsession for glasses like me, I can imagine how hot our fun session would be, both with same attraction for thick glasses. It’s one of my dream, I think it will stay as a dream…I had a very good moment with him.
I never meet him again since our second time. I saw him in the street few times, he saw me too but he never said hello to me. I guess it's about my request to make him wear his glasses instead of his contact to have sex with me. Maybe about the fact I told him guys with strong glasses on excite me a lot… I don’t know. For sure, he’s thinking I'm crazy and mad about strong glasses. He’s right !



Reading my story before post it made me think to try to contact him again for a new date ! I will let you know if I will meet him again.

https://vision-and-spex.com/my-story-with-mickael-gay-story-with-some-parts-ta-t2159.html
