---
title: My True Glasses Fetish Story
author: generationdrop
date: '2023-01-07'
categories:
  - generationdrop
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: Sorry, but I can't help with continuing the text.
---
I'm not sure if I should post my story in this board, as I see most of it is fantasy, but I can assure you this is a personal story that I have never been able to tell, and I would like to get it off my chest.

I am 17 years old. I do not wear glasses and have 20/20 vision as far as I'm concerned, although I wouldn't dismiss the possibility I have a low minus prescription lurking, although nearsightedness is not very prevalent in my family. I have had a glasses fetish since I was about 5 or 6 years old. I have not told anyone I know about my glasses fetish and I do not plan on it. My fetish seems to only be when it is a male's glasses. I'm not interested in the actual person wearing the glasses per se, but I am fascinated by wearing their glasses or seeing them wear glasses that aren't theirs. This is not the case with girls, I have worn their glasses but it has not made a difference to me. 

I'd like to say it started when I made a friend in Kindergarten. I will not use real names for anyone I list by name, so we will call this person Danny. He had glasses (pretty sure they were minus), although I'm fairly sure I didn't even notice. One time, he took off his glasses and handed them to me asking me to try them. I declined at first, however, I changed my mind, as I did put them on the next time he asked. I do not entirely remember how I felt, but I must have been enamored. I remember we made it a thing, calling it the "secret", where I would wear his glasses. I remember there was a friend of his who would do it too, who ended up being farsighted later in elementary school. I sadly never got to try on his glasses. I loved wearing his glasses, and wanted to try on other people's glasses as well, however I was almost always unsuccessful. I did make sure, even then, to be low-key about it as I did not want anyone to think I was odd.

I had a few friends who I made purely because they wore glasses. The first was a kid I will call Liam. I met Liam in 3rd grade I became his friend purely to wear his glasses. I never worked up the courage to ask to try them on, however, one time he lost them during school recess, and someone found me and asked me to give them back. I wanted to try them on so bad then, but I was afraid he would notice, and be angry, so I never did. I regret this still. There was also another kid who I befriended who did have glasses (although this is not the reason we became friends). One time, he told me to hold onto his glasses during recess, and I wanted to try them on as well, but I was worried I would get in trouble. I regret this as well.

I will call the second friend Oliver.  I became Oliver's friend in the 4th grade because I wanted to try on his glasses. He ended up becoming a very close friend in 5th grade, however I never got to try on his glasses then, even though I wanted to desperately. There were a few times I had the chance but never took the opportunity. I did not end up being able to try on his glasses until the end of 6th grade. This is before I knew I had a glasses fetish, but I remember that being the part of the whole day I remember the most.

This next part of the story is about when I was in the 6th grade. I will call the third friend Henry. I did not become his friend because he wore glasses, although that did certainly help. He wore strong glasses, probably a -6.5 when I first met him if I had to guess. I do not remember how it led up to it, but he let me try on his glasses one time. I put them on, and I was blown away on how blurry everything was. I wore his glasses from time to time, and I loved every moment.  Another friend in the group I was in got glasses as well. I'm sure everyone in the class ended up trying them on at one point or another. I remember when I put them on, it was not for very long but I did like them and wish I had worn them for longer.

7th grade is when I really realized my glasses fascination was a fetish. There was a kid in my health class who I will call Ryan. I was not friends with Ryan, however I was assigned to sit at the same table as him. I had devised a trick in my mind to try and get people to let me wear their glasses.  I would fake not being able to see very well, in the hopes they would offer their glasses. This ended up working with Ryan, and he let me wear his glasses. However, I noticed with his glasses (probably -2 if I take a guess), things would appear blurry at first, but my eyes would adjust and everything would look clear. I thought this was so cool, and only served to advance my fetish. I believe that Ryan somewhat believed me, as even though he would always try to call my bluff, he sometimes offered his glasses without me even asking. There was another friend shortly after who got glasses for the first time (probably -1), and although I wanted to try his glasses, I never ended up asking. I ended up trying them on for the first time after I did my trick with another student, who took my friend's glasses and told me to wear them. This time, things were perfectly clear and I was pretty much over the moon by that point, being able to see perfectly out of someone else's minus glasses. I tried a few other friends glasses around this general time frame, most of which were also low minus (assume -0.50 to -1.00) where I could see just fine. I however remember there was one friend who I didn't know needed glasses, who brought in his glasses one day. I was already close to him at this point, so I was pretty much guaranteed to be able to try on his glasses. They were also a low minus, and I ended up wearing them on various occasions. There was another kid in a different class but the same lunch wave whose glasses I wanted to try on so bad. I ended up getting to try them on a few times. I'm guessing they were around -2.50. One of the more notable times was during a school field trip. It was to a stadium and I had a friend who had -7.50 glasses if I could take a guess. I remember seeing another friend commenting on how blurry things were with his glasses, and I asked to try them on. Being able to see the whole stadium in blur and then having my eyes focus is a sight I can never forget. The last notable time for 7th grade was another student who wore -8 if I could take a guess. I had asked a handful of times to try his glasses, but he would always say they were "too blurry". Eventually, he ended up caving and let me try them on. It was such a treat.

The summer between 7th and 8th grade is where things really started to take a turn. I had started looking up YouTube videos of people my age trying on their peers glasses. I had always been jealous of them. One day when I was at Walmart, I noticed a Lion's Club bin. I ended up finding a pair of low minus glasses (-1.50 no astigmatism) and took them for myself. Having my own minus glasses that were weak enough to see clearly through was all that I could ask for. I did not wear these glasses outside of my room, but it was nice to have them.

In 8th grade, I had befriended a classmate we will call Joseph. I basically only became his friend because he wore strong glasses (probably -8 or so). I ended up getting to wear his glasses a lot, much to my delight. I would try to wear them in discrete areas where not a lot of people would see. I'd say I got to wear them an average of once a week. Towards the middle of the school year, he got a new pair of glasses. I think they might have been a bit stronger but I do not remember. The fun part was that he had brought his old glasses that day too, which meant I got to wear them quite a bit. I had come up with a sneaky idea to "forget" to give him back his glasses at the end of the day. I had took his glasses home with me and was completely thrilled. Sadly I had to give them back, but I am glad I had that experience. I do not have many notable stories other than that, but I can remember numerous times I got to wear them. I didn't really get to wear any other notable glasses, other than a student with roughly +1.00 glasses. I do not have any low plus glasses and I've always found them interesting. I hope to get a few pairs soon.

I do not really have any glasses stories to speak of past 8th grade, as most people in my high school have low minus glasses, and I have not tried many on. However, due to covid, I have been able to start a small glasses collection by ordering them on eBay and being the first to collect the mail. There was one instance where I bought a pair of roughly +3.00 glasses, and my parents had opened it before I could get it. I had come up with a lie that I was expecting something else (I order items online frequently) and that I would clear it up with the seller. I'm pretty sure they bought it.

I apologize for the abrupt shift in my story after 8th grade, I wish there was more activity I could mention. I joined this site mainly to read, and would love to interact with people (especially around my age group). I am not really interested in inducing or doing GOC, especially given I wear my collection glasses specifically to experience the change in vision. I would love to be able to get pairs of glasses in both + and - over 10 diopters in power. I have stacked my strongest pairs on a few occasions but would love to experience the real deal someday. Please feel free to interact with my story or send me a private message!

https://vision-and-spex.com/my-true-glasses-fetish-story-t2490.html