---
title: Our Parents Wondered Why
author: Specs4ever
date: '2023-03-02'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

                            
 When my mother was 19, she and my father, who was 2 years older, were married. My birth followed within a couple of months, and then less than 2 years later my sister was born after the normal 9 month gestation period. Life was pretty uneventful until I was almost 12 and in grade 6. My sister was 10 now, and in fourth grade, and that is when she started to complain to me that she couldn’t see stuff very well. I suggested that she should tell Mom, but she was afraid to do that. Alecia made me promise not to tell our parents, and then she didn’t say anything more to me either. But I did notice that she never came into the family room to watch the television anymore. She spent most of her time in her bedroom reading her books on her kindle, but she told our parents that she was doing schoolwork.
 
One day we were walking home from school and when she almost started into the intersection when the walk signal was flashing 3 seconds, I asked her what she was doing. That is when I realized that her eyesight was really quite poor, as she told me she thought it said 8 seconds. I told her then that if she didn’t tell our parents about her poor eyesight, I would.
 
When she did finally tell our mother, the first thing that mom did – after telling Alecia that there was nothing wrong with her eyes that exercises wouldn’t fix, was to start making Alecia do eye exercises for a half hour after school every day. I also got roped into these exercises and I can still remember having to make my eyes look as far to the right as possible, then to the left, then up and finally down. We were supposed to be making our eye muscles work to do this. Then after repeating this time after time, we had to roll our eyes around in their socket for at least 5 minutes.
 
After about a month of doing this, I was getting bored. I didn’t feel that the exercises were helping my eyes at all, and whenever I asked Alecia if she could see any better, she told me that she was not only not seeing any better, but she also thought her eyes were getting even worse. I was so sick and tired of rolling my eyes I thought I needed to do something. I knew that telling our dad would not work, as he would never go against mom. I came up with the idea of talking to her teacher and telling her that Alecia needed glasses, but our mom wouldn’t believe it.  This idea worked and her teacher gave Alecia a note to take home that told our parents that Alecia needed to see an eye doctor now.
 
Mom had great eyesight. She even bragged about how good her eyes were and to prove it she would often be able to read street signs before dad could. Dad didn’t wear glasses and I don’t think he had poor eyesight. It was just that mom had better eyes. No one in her family had ever needed glasses until they were older and that is why she was so sure that there was nothing wrong with Alecia’s eyes. But she made an appointment with an eye doctor for Alecia, and she also made one for me.
 
Alecia went in first, and the result was not a surprise to me. I had my eyes checked next, and the doctor told me that I was showing signs that I might be a little myopic, but for right now I didn’t need to get glasses. When he was talking to mom telling her that Alecia was quite nearsighted and needed glasses badly, I could hear her telling the doctor that since she had such good eyes it was hard to believe that her daughter should have poor eyesight. The doctor told her that most of his customers needed glasses and it would be a pleasure to examine someone like my mom who claimed to have great vision.
 
Mom often suffered from headaches, and she never did a lot of reading. After her eye exam the doctor told her she was actually farsighted and had a lot of latent hyperopia, which was causing her headaches. Mom didn’t believe him until he made her up one of those funny frames that had interchangeable lenses put into.  She probably still didn’t believe him, but the end result of our eye doctors visit was that both mom and Alecia were getting glasses.
 
Alecia was thrilled to finally get her glasses. Apparently, they were strong enough that she needed to wear them all the time. Mom wasn’t as happy. Her distance vision was not as good as she felt it had been, and the doctor explained that it would take a while before she got used to seeing through the glasses. But she had to admit that now it was much easier for her to read. As we drove home with both mom and Alecia wearing glasses mom stopped at a red light and took her glasses off to drive the rest of the way home. Alecia had no problem wearing her glasses. Mom tried her best to not wear them. But the clincher was that she stopped having headaches, so she started wearing them more and more.
 
There was an obvious difference between my sister’s new glasses and my moms. When I looked into moms’ eyes, they seemed a little bigger when she had her glasses on. With Alecia her eyes looked a tiny bit smaller, but they were clearer behind the lenses than mom’s eyes were. Alecia was never seen without her glasses now, and mom was wearing her glasses most of the time. I was surprised when after about 6 months mom and Alecia had to go back to the eye doctor again. And I was even more surprised when mom and Alecia both needed new glasses. I didn’t understand back then that farsighted people needed some time to adapt to a weaker prescription than they really needed. And I really didn’t understand how Alecia’s eyes had gotten a lot worse in only a few months.
 
Now that I am older, I think I understand why Alecia’s vision was getting worse and worse. For a couple of years before Alecia got her first pair of glasses, she read a lot. She would hide away in her room reading real books, and then after she got her Kindle for her 9th birthday, she was constantly reading books that she downloaded from the library. I had often noticed that everything she read was held really close to her face, and I now suspect that reading at such a close distance without taking breaks to rest her eyes had helped create, and after she got her first glasses, increase her myopia. Once mom had her second pair of glasses her prescription did not change, although she did get new glasses a coupe of years later, after Alecia was on her fifth increase. Now, at 12 years of age Alecia’s newest glasses looked to be fairly strong, as the lenses were now thicker than the frame was.
 
I knew. I didn’t want to know, but when I was around halfway between my 13th and 14th birthdays, I knew I needed glasses badly. And what was worse was that Alecia had figured this out as well. She threatened to tell our parents, but unlike when she had needed glasses, I also knew that this time mom would take me to see the eye doctor. There would be no eye exercises for me, as mom had now been wearing her glasses for a year and a half and, while she didn’t love them, there was no way she could go without them as she found it impossible to read anything without them. Alicia, on the other hand could still take her glasses off and read up close. I had no way of figuring out if the glasses I needed were going to be like moms, or if they would be like Alecia’s. But if I asked Alecia to let me try on her old glasses there was a very good possibility I could find out. I got Alecia to let me wear her old first pair. They were a little tight on me, and they really didn’t do me much good. I thought things looked to be a little clearer, but I knew they were not what I needed. Alecia took her second pair out of the case, handed them to me and wow, everything looked so much clearer. That is when I knew I was nearsighted just like Alecia and that made me happy. I liked the way Alecia’s eyes looked behind the lenses of her glasses much better than the magnified look of mom’s lenses.
 
I didn’t like the appearance of Alecia’s second pair of glasses. Our coloring is similar, and our faces are shaped about the same so they should have looked all right on me, but even though I could see better, I didn’t like my looks wearing them. Alecia’s third pair was still in their case, and I asked her if I could try them. When I put them on, I could tell they were a little stronger, but with barely any effort I could see everything very clearly through the lenses. And when I looked in the mirror, I felt that I liked the way I looked wearing this frame. I wanted to wear them for a while, so I asked Alecia if I could wear them to school the next day – without letting our parents know I also needed glasses.
 
Alecia agreed to give me a week to get used to wearing glasses before I told our parents. For the next week I wore those glasses every day from the time I left the house until the time our parents arrived home from work. When I took them off to go down for supper, I hated not being able to see clearly. And, by the end of the week Alecia’s old glasses no longer felt as if they were any less than perfect for me. I even got Alecia to let me wear her newest glasses, but she didn’t want to be without them for very long, so other than feeling that I could also wear them quite easily, I wasn’t able to wear them long enough for my eyes to adapt to them.
 
That weekend I told my parents that I really needed glasses. When they asked me how I was so sure of that I told them that I had been using Alecia’s old glasses at school for a week now, and that they made everything look a lot better. They let me wear Alecia’s old glasses for the rest of Saturday, and all-day Sunday. I liked it on Monday morning when I didn’t have to take them off to come downstairs for breakfast, and it was even better when I could wear then around home after my parents came home from work. Mom had called the eye doctor to get an appointment for me, and although she was disappointed, it was going to be another 2 weeks before I could get in to see the doctor. I was happy to be able to wear Alecia’s glasses as I felt I could no longer function without them.
 
Mom had gotten me an appointment after school on Tuesday. I had now been wearing Alecia’s glasses for 3 weeks and had worn them full time for over 2 weeks of that. Of course, the eye doctor knew that I was wearing my younger sister’s old glasses, and he asked me if I thought they were about what I needed for proper vision. I don’t know why I said it, but I told him that I thought I could see better wearing the latest pair of glasses that Alecia wore, but that she wouldn’t let me wear them because she really needed them herself. He flipped a whole bunch of lenses in the machine and asked me a million times which was better. I had a hard time deciding, but finally he stopped and took what he called a trial frame and put some loose lenses in it. He fitted it on my face and adjusted it so it felt ok. Then I had to wear the trial frame for a while so I could tell him if I thought the lenses seemed right for me. The eye doctor talked with mom about my eyes and then we looked at different frames for me. I had liked the frame that Alecia had for her newest glasses, and I wanted a frame just like that, but in black instead of the mottled brown she had.  After about half an hour the eye doctor came out and got me and took me back in to ask me how well I felt I could see with these lenses. I don’t know why I did it, but I told him that things looked pretty clear at first, but that the longer I wore them the harder it became to see things far away clearly. He switched a lens in the trial fame and asked me how that felt. Truthfully, it felt much stronger, but I told him that it was great. 
 
He wrote some numbers on a piece of paper and we went out and gave it to my mom, who immediately handed it to the optician who had been helping us. I heard the eye doctor tell my mom that I had a very strong prescription for a first time wearer, but that by wearing my sister’s glasses my eyes had been able to relax and instead of having to come back for stronger lenses in 3 or 4 months like my sister had, my new glasses would hopefully last for a while. When the optician asked mom if we wanted the thinner lenses because I should be good for a couple of years mom just told her to order the regular plastic lenses. I heard the optician tell mom that they would be fairly thick, and I hoped that this meant that they would stick out behind the frame like my sisters did.
 
That night I heard my mom tell dad that I had very poor eyesight and that my eyes were worse than Alecia’s were. I didn’t know what she meant when she told Dad that Alecia’s glasses were -5.50D but my new glasses needed to be -7.25D. I knew that this meant that my eyes were -1.75D worse than hers were, but I had no idea what the numbers meant. Mom also told dad that my sisters’ old glasses that I had been wearing were -4.50D. I thought I could see better wearing my sisters’ old glasses, so I didn’t really know why my new glasses had to be so much stronger. But now I was excited about getting my own new glasses.
 
It was 3 days before the optician phoned mom to tell her my new glasses were ready. Mom came home from work, picked me up and drove me to the optical store. I watched the optician take my new glasses out of a plastic bag, and when I was able to see them, I looked at the thickness and realized that they appeared to be a lot thicker than the glasses that Alecia now wore. Also, the front of the lenses looked to be flat. If they weren’t completely flat, they were pretty close. She had me remove Alecia’s glasses and she put the new ones on my face. I looked around and I blinked a few times. I felt I had to work at it to make my eyes see everything clearly, but I just figured that this was normal. The optician felt around my ears and then she took off my new glasses and put the earpieces in what I found was like hot sand. She bent the earpieces, but I was struggling to see what she was doing, as I could no longer see that far away clearly. When she put the glasses back on my face, they fit me quite well and I liked the fact that they did not slip down at all. I could see the outer edges of the lenses and I liked that they looked to be sort of thick. Mom paid for my glasses, and we drove home.
 
As soon as we got home Alecia wanted to try my new glasses on. I couldn’t very well refuse to let her, but when I took them off, I couldn’t see very well so I made her give me hers. I was surprised at how well I could now see through Alecia’s -5.50D lenses. My eyes didn’t have to struggle to get used to them like they did with my own. But I made a fuss about wanting my own glasses back, so we traded back again. Alecia told me that my eyes were now worse than hers, but that she could almost see through my glasses if she tried. I didn’t tell her that I could only see through my own glasses if I tried.  
 
The next day at school a few of my friends were shocked at the thickness of my lenses. I had only worn Alecia’s glasses at school for about a month, and while they were thicker than some of the other girls in my grade 8 class, now my own glasses were thicker than all but the pair that Shannon wore. Shannon had always been the girl with the thick glasses all through our school years as she had even worn glasses in kindergarten. But once that first day of wearing my own glasses was over there was nothing further said about my glasses and before long it seemed as if I had worn glasses forever.
 
Alecia was coming close to her yearly eye examination appointment. I knew she was curious about how I had managed to get glasses that were stronger than hers were since she had been a glasses wearer since she was 10. I had been a little curious as well, so I had done some research on the internet. From what I read on a couple of different websites younger people around my age could adapt to wearing glasses that were about -3D stronger than the prescription they were first able to see 20/20 with. One school of thought suggested that wearing stronger lenses than what they needed would lead to an increase in their prescription. Another school of thought was that by giving a younger person slightly stronger glasses than they required, the wearer would be able to go a little longer without having to purchase new glasses. I didn’t know what to think. I knew my glasses had been stronger than I needed when I first got them. But now when I took them off, I couldn’t see much of anything without them. Oh, sure, I could still walk around a room without bumping into the furniture, but if there was something on the floor I would either step on it without seeing it, or I would trip over it. I know that some people refer to themselves as blind as a bat without their glasses, but I actually felt that way.
 
A few days before her eye appointment Alecia came to me and asked me if I could let her wear my glasses for a while. And by “for a while” she meant for more than just a few minutes. I had homework to do, and I had a book I was reading, all of which I could see well enough to do while wearing her glasses. So, I told her I would give her an hour to try my glasses. At the end of the hour, she came back to my room, and I asked her what she thought.
 
“I can see a lot better with your glasses than I can with my own. Yours don’t even seem quite strong enough after I have worn them for a while. I know you told me that my glasses seemed stronger than you needed when I first let you wear them, but then you went to the eye doctor, and you ended up with these glasses that were a lot stronger than the old pair of mine that you had been wearing for 2 or 3 weeks. How did that happen?” Alecia asked.
 
I told her about doctor’s giving people the lowest possible prescription that they can see the 20/20 line with. I also told her that some doctors give people stronger prescriptions than they need at the time because they can go longer without needing new glasses. She thought about that for a while.
 
“Did our doctor give you stronger lenses than you needed?” Alecia asked.
 
“I don’t know for sure. When you said that my glasses seemed just right when you put them on but after wearing them for an hour, they seemed too weak I remember that feeling. When Dr. Lowe put the trial lenses in front of my eyes, they seemed great, but after an hour or so I told him they were not strong enough, so that is when he gave me the prescription I am now wearing. When I got those glasses, in the beginning they seemed too strong. But now they actually feel that they are not strong enough.” I replied.
 
Alecia asked me what she could do, if anything, to get Dr. Lowe to prescribe stronger lenses for her. I suggested that the one thing she could do would be to let the letters on the eye chart get a clear as possible and then tell him that they are not quite clear enough. If he increased the prescription until they started to get blurry then that might be strong enough. But when I thought more about it, I then suggested that maybe the best thing to do would be to tell him that it didn’t take long after you got the glasses you are wearing that you noticed that things looked blurry, and that your vision is really bad after dark.
 
Alecia thought about what I told her for a while, and on the day of her eye exam I suggested that maybe she should ask the doctor to let her try her new prescription in a pair of test glasses first. If he did that then she could say that the test glasses seemed pretty good at first but the longer she wore them the more blurred things got. When Alecia got home that night, I was in my room reading. She didn’t say anything, but just handed me her prescription slip. I could tell that the doctor had written -8.25D for both eyes, but had then crossed that out, initialed it and wrote -9.00D for both eyes.
 
“Wow, that is quite an increase for you. Your glasses will be even stronger than mine.” I spoke.
 
“That’s what the doctor said. I told him everything that you had suggested. After he finished, I asked him to let me wear my prescription in a trial frame, so he put the lenses in it and let me go out to the waiting room. I chose a new frame and then I sat down and read for a while. After I finished reading, I looked up and I had a hard time seeing the writing on the posters he has on the wall. When I was called back in, he ended up putting stronger lenses in the trial frame, and I told him that was better. He wrote out the prescription slip, and then changed his mind and crossed the one number out and wrote in the other. So, I ordered -9.00D glasses.” Alecia replied.
 
“Did you get the thinner lenses?” I asked.
 
“The optician really pushed them at me. She told me my glasses would be really thick, so I got her to give me a price. The thin lenses were going to be over a hundred dollars more, so I told her I would just have to make do with the thicker lenses.” Alecia responded.
 
“Shannon just got new glasses. She told me that they are -12.50D and are thinner than mine so I am pretty sure they are hi index. Yours will be really thick.” I told her.
 
“I can live with it.” Alecia said.
 
On Saturday Alecia and I went to the optical store to pick up her new glasses. They were definitely thicker than mine. She had ordered a frame that was exactly the same as mine, but they were a little larger than she probably should have gotten for her new prescription and the rings around the edge of the lenses went on and on. I know I am a little crazy, but I loved the appearance of them, and I promised myself I would go for the same frame again when I got my next pair of glasses. We headed home again, and I asked Alecia how she liked her new glasses.
 
“They make everything look a little weird. And maybe I shouldn’t have let them polish the edges because there are lots of reflections in the lenses. I don’t feel that they are too strong – maybe a little bit, but if they are I am glad I asked for the extra power.” Alecia told me.
 
When we got to the house Alecia, and I traded glasses. Her new glasses were -3.50D stronger than her old ones were, so that really was quite a large increase. But for me they were only -1.50D stronger and I adapted to them immediately. I thought about asking Alecia to go back to the optical store with me and we could order her a second pair of glasses so that I could wear the same prescription. My next appointment was 4 months away, and after wearing Alecia’s glasses for a very short period of time I was hooked. I wanted a prescription increase, and I wanted it now.
 
Over the next few days, I was scheming as to how I could have Alecia’s prescription placed into the frame of my glasses. And then fate intervened. Alecia had been complaining about the reflections in the lenses caused by the polished edges of her new lenses. She went back to the place we had gotten our glasses, and since they had talked her into the polished edges, they agreed to order her a new pair of lenses. Since Alecia and I both had the same frame, I knew her old lenses would fit my frame. Now all we had to do was to talk the optical store into letting Alecia have the old lenses, and I suggested that she should ask them if she could have them just in case she broke her glasses. I even told her that if they didn’t want to give them to her, she should offer them $20.00 or $30.00, which to them would be better than throwing the lenses out.
 
They were a little reluctant, but finally accepted the offer of $20.00. When we got back home, I lovingly took the loose lenses, and with a piece of 600 grit wet sandpaper I carefully sanded all of the polishing off of the lens edges. Then I managed to snap the -9.00D lenses into my frames by heating the plastic under very hot water. Alecia was amazed when she saw what I had successfully done, and she asked me how I had learned to do what I did. I told her that I had learned this from a couple of places on the internet just by asking how to remove the polishing on the edges of plastic eyeglass lenses and also how the best way to switch lenses was. Now I was happy, and Alecia was pleased to no longer have those irritating reflections.
 
It had taken over 3 years for Alecia to attain a -9.00D prescription. I had gone from not needing glasses to where I could now wear the same -9.00D glasses in about a year. Well, not really just a year because I had been struggling to see properly for at least 6 months before I admitted I needed glasses. I could not figure out why I was able to wear such strong glasses in such a short period of time. I did some investigating on my favorite place to go. Searching on Google lead me to an article that told me that young girls often developed myopia when they were going through puberty. I had been having my period now for about as long as I had been getting nearsighted. But this did not explain Alecia’s myopia. Alecia had just started her periods about 6 months ago. She was about a year younger than I was when she started. And the articles I had been reading also lead me to believe that Alecia would possibly be experiencing some large jumps in her myopia due to the female hormonal changes. It looked more like Alecia had become myopic from all of the close work she had been doing when she first became myopic. And now her prescription could climb even higher. I liked the fact that we could now wear the same glasses, and I didn’t want that to change. My only option would be to increase my own myopia to keep pace with Alecia’s.
 
At the age of 15 I knew that what I wanted to do was not a very smart move. I had read enough about myopia and the progression of myopia to know that high myopia could be very dangerous in some cases. But for me, I had an inner urge to wear very thick glasses and I wanted to satisfy my urge. I didn’t care if guys didn’t find me attractive if I needed very strong glasses. I was sure that there would be some guy out there who wanted me, and if there wasn’t I could live with that. I knew that my classmate Shannon had a stronger prescription than I had, and Shannon had no problem seeing well wearing her glasses nor did she seem to have a problem finding boyfriends.
 
I wore Alecia’s -9.00D lenses in my frames until the night before my scheduled eye exam. In only 4 months of wearing these lenses I knew my eyes had adapted to and could possibly accept even stronger lenses. I had worn my -7.25D lenses for only 8 months before I switched to the -9.00D ones and the -9.00D ones had been so easy for me to wear that within a month I had started bringing my reading material to within about 6” of my face, as I had read that doing this would likely increase your myopia. I knew that the -9.00D lenses were no longer strong enough, and that night, when I switched back to my old -7.25D ones I knew I was going to have a hard time at school that day. It was a day that I never wanted to repeat. I could barely see a thing and when I walked in the hall, I know I missed saying hello to some of my friends. They were going to think I was a real snob.
 
Finally, I caught the bus to the eye doctor’s office. I had to wait about 10 minutes past my appointment time before the nurse took me in to the first room, and she did the first tests. Then she led me to the doctor’s office and sat me down in front of the big machine with the lenses in it. It wasn’t long before the eye doctor came in.
 
“Well Marta, it looks like your prescription has taken another large jump. How long have you been seeing as poorly as you are?” Dr. Lowe asked.
 
“Everything has been really blurry for the last 3 months Dr.” I replied.
 
“We will fix that.” Dr. Lowe said as he swung the machine in front of my eyes and clicked a bunch of things. “What can you see Marta?”
 
“I am pretty sure the top letter is an E, and the second line down is pretty blurry, but I am guessing it is an F and a B.” I replied.
 
“Your eyes have really gotten a lot worse Marta. The second line is an F and a P. You should have come in after 6 months. Your visual acuity is only 20/100. Now is this better?” Dr. Lowe asked.
 
Finally, after a lot of switching of lenses the doctor was satisfied. I asked him to again let me try my prescription in a trial frame for a while out in reception, and he made up a trial frame with the lenses he thought I needed. I spent around 45 minutes reading some magazines and while I couldn’t get as close as I would have liked to get to the magazine after a while, I could bring it to what I considered a fairly close distance. I had taken the trial frame off and checked the lenses Dr. Lowe had put in it, and I was very surprised to see that each eye had a -10 and a -3.50 lens in it. That added up to -13.50. That was only -1D less than double the prescription I had in my own glasses. Finally, I was called back in, and the doctor took off the trial frame and handed me a different pair of glasses. I put them on, and I could almost see perfectly. They were a little strong, but they were quite wearable.
 
“Where did these glasses come from Doctor?” I asked.
 
“They were made for a patient who ordered them in 1.67 hi index, and when they came in, she refused to take them because they were too thick looking, and she changed her order to 1.74 index. How do they feel?” Dr. Lowe asked.
 
“I can certainly see a lot better with them than I could with my own glasses.” I answered.
 
“I don’t doubt that, but they are a little strong for you. I am afraid that if I let you wear them your own prescription will increase a little sooner.” Dr. Lowe replied.
 
“They don’t feel too strong. Actually, the longer I have them on the better I seem to be seeing. How strong are they?” I asked.
 
“They are -14.50D. That is double your old prescription, but I tested you at -13.50D so it is only -1.00D higher than you need.” Dr. Lowe said.
 
“Are you willing to sell me these glasses Doctor? I feel like I really need them.” I said.
 
“I won’t sell them to you, but I will loan them to you on the condition that you come back in 6 months for another eye exam. If they are still a proper prescription for you to wear, I will then consider selling them to you.” Dr. Lowe responded.
 
I left the doctors office wearing my new -14.50D glasses. I had looked in a mirror before I left the office, and I saw exactly what I wanted to see – a very nearsighted 15 year old girl. I could hardly wait until I got home to show Alecia my new glasses. I wondered if she would feel envious of me or not, but I would understand if she didn’t want her eyes to reach the prescription I was now wearing.
 
Alecia wasn’t really envious, but she did admire the fact that my glasses were now likely the strongest glasses in our whole school. She was more like: “ If my eyes get that bad then I guess I will have to wear glasses that strong.” I could understand and accept that.
 
The next day at school Shannon came up to me and asked me if she could try my glasses on. She was surprised that my glasses were now stronger than hers were, and I had only worn glasses for 2 years compared to her 13 years of wearing them. I rather liked the feeling of being the most nearsighted girl in the school.
 
By the time I graduated from high school my prescription had climbed to -17.50D. The lenses in my glasses were now what would be considered by many as myodiscs. If I had chosen a smaller frame size the circle would not have been as obvious but large frames had been in vogue for a number of years now, and they didn’t seem to be getting any smaller. Dr. Lowe was still my eye doctor, and he had given me the -14.50D glasses for free after he found I could still wear them for a while longer at my 6 month checkup. But that was not the end of my myopic progression, as I still maintained my close reading distance so that my eyes would still get a little worse.
 
By the time Alecia finished her high school years her prescription was still following step by step with mine. She was then wearing -17.50D glasses herself. I finished nursing school after 4 years there and now the myodiscs circle in my current -23.00D glasses was quite a bit smaller than the 40mm circle in my first pair of myodiscs. But I rather liked the 30mm circle and I had gotten used to it. My current boyfriend was quite happy with my appearance wearing glasses, and he understood that my vision without my glasses was virtually nonexistent. He had never once suggested that I should try to wear contact lenses. Alecia went on to become a teacher and after 4 years of university as well as a year at teacher’s college her prescription and mine were exactly the same.
 
Our parents often wondered why their two daughters had grown up to both be extremely shortsighted and both of us needed very strong glasses to see anything past the end of our noses. But neither my sister nor I would ever tell them.

Specs4ever.
June 2021
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

https://vision-and-spex.com/our-parents-wondered-why-t2552.html
