---
title: "Paul's problem"
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-06-10'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: In a future where teenagers are restricted at malls, one boy's quest for his glasses leads to controversy.
---
This is not a true story but it's based on something that could happen in the future and in fact it takes place in November of this year. 17 year old high school senior Paul of Louisville Kentucky for reasons known only to him suddenly stopped driving his car to school and started taking the bus. Paul was not in trouble either at school or at home. After much probing by his parents Paul revealed he was having trouble seeing at night. Paul's parents made him an appointment with an Optometrist and which revealed he had become slightly Myopic. Paul and his parents were surprised as no close family member was Myopic but quickly accepted the diagnosis. Paul was told he only needed glasses for night driving but could wear them more if he felt the need while attending movies or sporting events. Paul's Dad called the major optical store in the Jefferson Mall nearby to where they lived with a question. Paul's Dad asked if I come with him to pick out and pay for the glasses can he  pick them up by himself? Paul's Dad was told yes he could so that is where they choose to go. Paul's glasses were ordered and during school the next Friday  he got the text saying they were in. Paul who didn't get home riding the bus until 3:30 got in his car and went to the mall. Paul who looked younger then his actual age arrived at the mall at 4:03 and was met at the door by a security guard who told him he had to have a parent with him to come in. Paul showed the guard his receipt and said all he wanted to do was pick up his glasses. The guard said I can't go against mall policy and it says anybody under 18 has to have a parent or guardian with them after 4:00. Paul's Mom is out of town and his Dad won't be home until 8:00 so he gives up his plans to hang out with friends that night due to not wanting to drive after dark. Paul's Dad who has a bit of a temper takes him to the mall to get his glasses and when shown the guard who didn't let his Son in while leaving with the glasses chews him out but then realizes he was only doing his job and says he's sorry. Paul was his usual easygoing self about the whole deal and not mad about missing hanging out with friends. Paul's Dad fires off an angry letter to mall management saying the poor kid only wanted to pick up his glasses. Mall management stubbornly refuses to change anything. Paul who loved driving now was comfortable at night with his glasses. It looks like the mall's one size fits all policy on under 18 is not working.

https://vision-and-spex.com/paul-s-problem-t1324.html