---
title: 'Perfume and a Quickie:'
author: Specs4ever
date: '2014-10-01'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: Carla awaits the end of a boring evening, eager to remove her contacts and put on her glasses.
---
Carla was sitting at a table in the meeting hall with a number of other ladies that were going to receive their awards plaques at this evening’s presentation.  The chicken dinner had been excellent and the check that Carla was about to receive with her award was going to come in handy to help pay for some of her expenses.  But the man in charge of the direct marketing firm that Cara was working for had been at the podium for a little past his “best by” expiry date from the looks of the bored expressions on all the faces around her.

Carla couldn’t help but let her mind wander back to the day that she had answered an ad for a direct marketing representative for the Concentric Group.  She had not known who they were or what they did; however once she investigated she discovered that many of the product lines that were sold through home marketing parties were familiar names to her. She had just graduated from high school, but even though she had high marks in her college admission tests she didn’t have the necessary funds to go on to university and the commissions that she could earn by selling the Concentric Groups products looked to be sufficient to allow Carla to earn a decent living. 

The CEO was winding down his speech and soon the awards would be presented.  Carla could hardly wait for this part of the evening to end so that she could get home and remove her contacts.  Normally her rigid gas permeable lenses were only in her eyes for a maximum of 6, maybe 7 hours a day but it had already been at least 7 hours and it looked like she would have to suffer for another couple of hours.  There was no sense being upset about this because Carla had worn glasses and or contacts to correct her severe myopia and astigmatism since she was almost 4 years old.  This severe myopia was an unwelcome legacy from her father Carl, who had also given Carla her name.  While her father was quite nearsighted himself, the myopia that had been passed on to Carla was much more severe than her dad’s myopia.  Sometimes Carla envied her sister Julia who had also inherited her myopia from their father, but who had a prescription that, at around -6D was a few diopters lower than Carl’s.  Julia could easily wear soft contact lenses for her myopia, but she liked her glasses and refused to even try contacts.  Carla wasn’t as fortunate.  Her high astigmatism prevented her from wearing soft contacts. Sure, she could get toric lenses that supposedly would correct her -4.25D astigmatism in her right eye and her -4.00D astigmatism in her left eye, but when combined with the -18.00D prescription she now needed in her contacts to correct her myopia the soft lenses were uncomfortable, and they didn’t sit properly on her eyeballs so that every time she blinked she was left in a world of blur until the lenses found their proper place again.  This was not acceptable for driving, and Carla had been forced to wear the RGP lenses.  After all, wearing glasses as thick as she required to be able see anything past the end of her nose just was not acceptable for the appearance she wanted to project.

Carla could hardly wait for the long boring evening to end so she would be able to leave. Some of the sales people would stay afterwards to talk with the others, but Carla still had to drive home and right now her contacts were killing her.  She just had to get home and take them out so she could put her glasses on.  She knew from past experiences that this would happen, but there really had been no option for her to wear her glasses.  She had spent most of her savings on her contact lenses back when she got into this business and, while she had earned quite a lot of money in commissions there had not been enough money left over for her to buy herself a new pair of glasses with the high index glass lenses that she needed. Even with these high index lenses her glasses would still be pretty thick and strong looking so there was no way in the world that she would have ever shown up wearing her old glasses.  And driving at night wearing her old glasses was not an option either.

Most of the time Carla didn’t concern herself with the fact that she was extremely shortsighted.  At first, when she was 4 years old and her parents had discovered that she couldn’t see very well Carla had just been happy to get her first glasses.  They had opened up an exciting world for her.  For the first time she realized that trees had individual leaves and were not just green blobs.  She could now recognize people from more than a couple of feet away, and probably the best part was when her parents took her to watch her sister Julia at her figure skating practice Carla could now see which one of the girls on the ice was Julia.  The fact that her glasses sometimes frosted up when she was at the skating rink was a small price to pay for being able to see things.

Carl had been a little disappointed when they discovered that Carla had inherited his myopia.  Carla had known all her life that her father had originally hoped for her to be a boy, and that is why her parents had named her after her dad.  But Carl had never shown her that he was at all disappointed and in fact had probably shown her that he loved her even more than he loved Julia.  But he also was kind and loving towards Julia so neither girl could fault him.

Over the years, as Carla reached school age, and then grew into puberty Carl had done everything he could to ensure that Carla had the best possible correction for her poor eyesight.  Some years Carla had needed a change in her prescription twice in a year, and Carl had never once complained about the money that the family had to spend on Carla’s eyes.  Even so, Carla knew that her bad eyesight was costing the family money that was needed for other things and when she would start to notice that things were not clear enough she would use all sorts of tricks to allow her to put off getting new lenses.  The kids in school had frequently given Carla a hard time about the fact that she needed very strong glasses to be able to see and they had sometimes been a little cruel towards her, as kids so often are.  But for the most part they had been pretty good at helping her out when she was having trouble seeing what the teacher was writing on the board.

The year Carla turned 14 was a very bad year. She had gotten new lenses for her glasses right when school started.  By late November she could no longer see well enough to take notes from what the teacher had written on the board and she had to depend on her seatmate Michael to help her out.  Carla had started to blossom the previous year.  Her breasts had grown, her figure had filled out, and she was actually quite an attractive young lady, even with the thick glasses she wore constantly.  Her sister Julia was now 16, and for the past 2 or 3 years since she had blossomed into an attractive young lady she had been involved with quite a few different boyfriends.  Julia called it playing the field and seemed to take pride in the fact that she always had a date.  But she hardly ever went out with a boyfriend for more than a few dates before she moved on.  Carl had worried about Julia, and he knew that there was a strong possibility that she might be having sex with some of her boyfriend’s so Carl made sure that Julia was taking birth control pills.  That is why, even though Carla didn’t have a boyfriend yet, Carl made sure that Carla was also taking the pill before she had sex with a boy.  

Carla wasn’t sure if the reason she started allowing Michael to have sex with her was because of the fact that she knew she couldn’t get pregnant. Ostensibly she started allowing Michael to make love to her in return for all the help he was giving her at school.  But it didn’t take long before Carla was hooked on sex.  She and Michael were now having sex almost every afternoon after school and Michael wasn’t even her boyfriend.  When Michael wanted to go steady with his girlfriend Diana the afternoon sex stopped and Carla was devastated.  Her friend Debbie was another girl who also seemed to want to have sex a lot, and now Debbie and Carla were going out with a lot of the guys around the school. Carla just couldn’t help it because she really seemed to need the sex.

Julia soon found out that Carla was having sex with most of the guys around their town.  She tried to have a talk with Carla, but by now Carla didn’t have any options. She liked, and needed sex very badly.  Carla thought that Julia was likely very experienced in giving boys sexual favors, and she was quite surprised to find out that Julia was still a virgin. Apparently she only had the reputation of being a sexpot because she cultivated the look of being sexy.  Carla though that Julia was missing out on things, because Carla liked having sex so much she couldn’t do without it and she couldn’t understand why Julia didn’t want to experience the same feelings.

Carl must also have heard that Carla was sleeping with a lot of boys because for Christmas that year his present to Carla was a vibrator.  Carla tried the vibrator, and she was able to reduce her need for sex with men, but the little machine didn’t give her the satisfaction she seemed to need.  Carla knew lots of guys in their town who didn’t seem to get any sex from their girlfriends and she was quite willing to have sex with them whenever possible.

After Julia graduated from high school she moved to the city that was about an hour’s drive away from the town they grew up in.  She entered into a nursing program at the hospital there and by the time Carla had graduated from high school Julia was only a year away from being a nurse.  Julia was earning fairly good money as an apprentice nurse and she convinced Carla that she should come to the city and stay with her while she looked for a job. Carla had a couple of other low paying sales jobs in the first few months, but Carla eventually became a sales representative for the Concentric Group.

When Carla moved to the city to live with Julia she didn’t know anyone other than the few friends she met through Julia.   Because of her need for sex Carla usually went home for the weekends, where she would find some of her old male friends that were willing to sleep with her.  This was keeping Carla’s sexual appetite satisfied on the weekends, but during the week she had to depend on the vibrator.  Julia really couldn’t understand why her younger sister needed so much sexual satisfaction and there was no way that Carla could explain it to her.  Julia even thought that maybe the reason for Carla requiring so much sex was due to her sister’s severe myopia.  In bed Carla could forget about her poor eyesight and just concentrate on satisfying herself and her sexual partner.

It was through Julia’s boyfriend Ian that Carla met his friend Jonathan.  Jon seemed to be a fairly shy and reserved person. But when he was introduced to Carla he appeared to be quite interested in her and after talking to her most of the evening he asked her out on a date the following night.  Carla thought that Jon was really cute and very nice and she couldn’t wait to have sex with him. But Julia told Carla that she should hold off for at least a couple of dates before she let Jon have sex with her.  Carla followed her sister’s advice and allowed Jon to take her out for a few dates before she let him sweet talk her into having sex with him.

Carla fell hard for Jonathan. He was not as sexually experienced as Carla was but it didn’t take long before Carla taught him to satisfy her completely.  Jon must have thought he was in heaven, because they were soon having sex almost daily. And Carla was thrilled that Jon didn’t seem to be at all bothered by the fact that her uncorrected eyesight was almost non existent and she required very strong glasses to see anything past the end of her nose. She often took her glasses off when they made love, but frequently Jon would talk her into leaving them on. He was very good about never smearing the lenses, and if they did get smeared he would carefully remove them from her face and clean them before he gently placed them back in front of her eyes.

It had been about 7 or 8 months since Carla had moved to the city and she had been going with Jon for about 3 months when the opportunity to become an independent sales associate for the Concentric Group was offered to her.  Carla was a little worried as to whether she could earn enough in commissions to pay her share of the rent, but Julia convinced her to take a chance, so she took the job.  The Concentric Group manufactured the Trillium line of cosmetics, along with the Everlast line of cookware and the Forever line of jewelry.  These products were not available in any store, but they were very well known as superior products to most of the women, and as the lady who hired Carla told her, the products almost sold themselves.  But the lady who hired Carla on a temporary basis suggested to Carla that she should buy herself contact lenses so she could get rid of her thick glasses.  Carla realized that some of her customers might be a little biased about her strong glasses, but she explained that she did not have enough money right at the moment to buy herself contacts.  Carla agreed to use some of her commissions to buy herself contacts as soon as she caught up on her bills and the lady had hired her.

During the first few months the money didn’t exactly roll in. Carla had to work very hard to develop a client base, but by the time she had been holding house parties for 6 months things were starting to look up for Carla.  Jon seemed to be terribly in love with her and the sex was fantastic.  There had been at least 5 parties and the sales had been increasing at every party.  Finally Carla felt that she could buy herself contacts.  It was time that Carla had an eye exam anyway as her distance vision had definitely worsened again.

Carla now required OD -18.00 x -4.25 x 30 and OS -18.00 x -4.00 x 150 for her new glasses prescription.   She ordered new lenses for her old frames, even though they were a little old fashioned in their appearance.  Then she tried toric soft contacts, but after a week of wearing them Carla knew that this was not going to work.  The high astigmatism she had was a little too much for the toric contacts to work properly and they took too long to re-center themselves on her eyes whenever she blinked. Her eye doctor suggested that she should try rigid gas permeable lenses.  These lenses worked – sort of. At first it was very hard to get used to having something in her eyes.  She had to gradually build up her wearing time and it took almost 6 weeks before she could get up to 6 hours a day of wear.  But the improvement in her corrected eyesight was like night and day.  Now Carla felt much more comfortable behind the wheel of the car that she and Julia shared.  Signs that were only a blur until she got almost too close for comfort could now be seen from far enough away that she was able to put her turn signal on in plenty of time. And she no longer had to drive around the block to come back to a street that she had missed reading the sign for.

Everything was going along very well in Carla’s world. Her sales kept increasing every month and the commission checks grew larger and larger.  She and Jon had been dating for a little over 2 years and Jon was always ready for a roll in the hay.  Carla now was thinking that if Jon asked her to, she would definitely say yes to marriage. The only thing that created a problem for Carla was the fact that she could never seem to increase her hard contact lens wear past about the 6 hour mark.  After she had those hard pieces of plastic in her eyes for that long she really had to get them out as they seemed to be killing her eyes.  She had been back to her eye doctor a number of times and they had adjusted the lenses, but 6 hours seemed to be the maximum wear time for her. Days like today, where she would have to have her lenses in for almost 10 hours, were possible occasionally, but she would have to go without her contacts for the next day, maybe 2 days to allow her eyes time to recuperate.

Carla had her contact lenses for quite a while and because her ability to wear them in comfort had not increased much past the 6 hours she scheduled her daily activities around her ability to wear her contacts.  Most days she wore contacts from about 5 in the afternoon until she went to bed at 11.  She always did her customer deliveries after 5, because most of her female customers were home around then. And Julia often used the car to go back and forth to the hospital, so Julia was generally home by 4. After she finished her deliveries she would stop by to see Jon and as a result whenever they had sex together Carla was wearing her contacts most of the time.  Carla hadn’t thought anything about this, as she felt that Jon would prefer seeing her wearing contacts.  Carla thought that she was more attractive without her thick glasses, and she had just assumed that Jon would feel the same way.

Carla had noticed what seemed to be a cooling of Jon’s attraction towards her.  The sex was still great but Jon no longer seemed inclined to respond whenever Carla suggested that they should get an apartment together.  He simply told her that now wasn’t the right time for him. And then one day Jon blindsided Carla when he told her that he didn’t think they should see each other again.  She hadn’t seen this coming and she could not imagine what had gone wrong with their relationship.  She pleaded with Jon to tell her what was the matter, but he simply told her that he just didn’t think she was the right girl for him.

The next few weeks had been terribly hard on Carla.  She didn’t know what she had done wrong and her heart was broken by this. Also the lack of sex was something she just could not live without.  Her vibrator was replaced by a new, more powerful one, and while this helped a little it was only a poor substitute for having Jon inside her.  Carla was getting desperate to find herself another boyfriend, but she wasn’t desperate enough to throw herself at the first guy who came along.

Around this time Carla had gone to one of her very good female client’s homes to deliver an order.  When she arrived she saw a very attractive hunk of a man leaving the house. She had met this customer’s husband and Carla knew that this guy wasn’t the husband. She asked her client who the man she had seen leaving the house was, but the client was extremely evasive and wouldn’t tell her.  Carla didn’t really think much of this at the time but when she met the same man at the apartment of one of her other unmarried clients she became a little suspicious.  Carla knew that her 2 clients were the best of friends and when the man left while Carla was showing her client some new perfumes Carla boldly asked her client who the man was.  Her client was not at all secretive and told Carla that the man she had seen leaving was a male prostitute that she called in once in a while when she felt she needed a little more frequent sex than her boyfriend was willing to give her.

After Carla got over her initial shock she thought that this might be a good solution for her current predicament.  There would be no thoughts of romance between her and a male prostitute, but at least she would get the sex she paid for.  She was fortunate enough to get the man’s name and telephone number from her client and all it cost her was the gift of a bottle of perfume.

Carla hesitated for a few days before she called the man’s number but finally the need for satisfaction became so great that she called and set up an appointment.  For the first time since Jon dumped her Carla was sexually satisfied and her first appointment turned into an every other day affair.

Even though Ivan gave Carla a discount because of the frequency of her visits it was costing Carla quite a bit of her hard earned cash to pay for Ivan to satisfy her sexual desires.  She was still looking for a boyfriend, but had not been fortunate enough to find anyone satisfactory.

Julia knew that Carla was using Ivan for sexual services, and while Julia didn’t think much of the situation she realized that Carla really needed almost daily sex.  Julia probably didn’t intend it the day she suggested to her that it was too bad that Carla couldn’t get Ivan to pay for sex like most other men do.  With that a light bulb turned on in Carla’s head. Why couldn’t Carla find herself some men to pay her for sex?  It would certainly solve the problem of having to spend her money for Ivan’s services.  And it would make her some extra money as well.

Quite a few of Carla’s customers dragged their husbands or boyfriends along to Carla’s parties,  Carla had a number of men to choose from if she were to decide to offer her services to do more than sell perfume, cookware and jewelry.  But after she thought about this for a while she decided that it would not be a really good idea to seduce the boyfriend or husband of any of her clients.  She could easily loose a client this way and as a result she could ruin her reputation that by now she had spent about 3 years building up.  That meant that another tactic was required.

Carla thought about this for a few days before she realized that a number of her clients no longer had the same boyfriend that they had when they first met.  This could be a start for Carla since she had kept all the names and phone numbers of everyone who had ever attended any of her parties. It took a bit of searching, but before long Carla had derived a list of men who no longer were involved with any of her clients.

The first thing that Carla did was to set up a men’s only party.  She arranged for a meeting place and she invited all the males on her list. At the party Carla was dressed very seductively and she made sure that she paid a little extra attention to the men that she knew were no longer involved with any of her lady customers. She knew that she had gotten her message across when one of the men asked her privately if she was willing to go that extra step to make a sale.

And that is how it started.  It didn’t take long before Carla was very busy with both of her enterprises.  She rented an apartment of her own to use for her rendezvous with her male clients but she didn’t dare move out of the apartment that she shared with Julia in case Julia managed to figure out what Carla was doing. Carla would have been mortified if Julia had found out and were to tell their parents.  The apartment was a costly expense, but Carla was now making money from sex instead of spending it on a male prostitute.

Carla had also figured out why Jon had dumped her the day that she saw Jon walking through the park with another girl.  This other girl wasn’t nearly as attractive as Carla and didn’t have as trim a figure as Carla did.  But on her face was perched a pair of the thickest, strongest minus lensed glasses that Carla had ever seen on anyone.  With this Carla knew that Jon had left her because she was wearing her contact lenses whenever she was out with him.  If only he had told her that he wanted her to wear her glasses for him maybe she would not have had to go through all the trouble she had gone to.

Carla felt a nudge in her arm from the girl she was seated next to.  The man on the podium had called her name and she got up and walked gracefully up onto the stage. The award she was receiving tonight was for the highest dollar volume of sales in her district and she knew it was all the extra perfume sales that had brought her the award.  By now perfume and a quickie had become a buzzword for her male customers and they very seldom left the apartment without buying a new bottle of perfume.

https://vision-and-spex.com/perfume-and-a-quickie-t515.html