---
title: Putt Putt skins game.
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-05-01'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: A young golfer overcomes a vision mishap to win big at the Putt Putt skins game.
---
In the 80's and 90's Southern Golf the parent company of Putt Putt started a skins game due to how popular it was on the PGA tour. The Skins game worked basically the same way the PGA game did. Increasing money for each hole and if 1 tie all tie with the money carried over and added to the next hole. Through a series of tournaments 22 year old Dave, a contact lens wearer qualified and had to fly into Indianapolis for the actual game in 1992. Dave's glasses were a -2 so he was comfortable at night without them and since he would not be driving he did not take them with him. Dave's problems started when taking out his contacts for the night at the hotel when both lenses ripped rendering them unusable. Dave called his Dr. trying to get his prescription for either contacts or glasses to see if he could get either one locally. Dave's Dr. stubbornly refused both requests as it had been 13 months since his last eye exam so he was told his prescription had expired. Keep in mind this was before cell phones were common so it cost Dave pay phone rates for the long distance calls. Dave went to the scheduled practice the next day but he had trouble seeing the proper place on the bump boards or changes in the carpet to get the correct shot for the hole. Dave tried to get an eye exam too get glasses at an optical store that made them in 1 hour but was unable to get the exam. Dejected Dave returned to his hotel after the practice knowing he probably wouldn't do too well in the skins game. Bored with no transportation Dave went to a thrift store by the hotel. The thrift store had used glasses marked as just for the frames cautioning customers not to use the lenses in them. Dave tried on several pair and found a pair he could actually see out of. The next day in the skins game holes 1 thru 4 carried over and them Dave won hole 5. Holes 8 and 13 were won by other players and then the money carried all the way through hole 18 which was another tie. It took 5 extra holes before Dave won the big money. Winning hole 5 and the playoff netted Dave $3500 dollars all with a pair of glasses he had paid 2 dollars for. When Dave got home he scheduled an eye exam with a different Dr. then the one he gone to since he was 8 years old. The new Dr. called the old one an older man a jerk. Dave still got contacts but started wearing his glasses much more and within 5 years stopped wearing contacts at all.

https://vision-and-spex.com/putt-putt-skins-game-t1281.html