---
title: "Ray's story."
author: soindiana88
date: '2020-04-10'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: "Two best friends navigate the ups and downs of glasses and high school in the 90s."
---
Ray and I became best friends in the 2nd grade when he moved to the district for the same elementary school I had started in the year before. Our elementary years were fairly uneventful as we had a small circle of friends we hung out with. After we finished elementary school we moved on to junior high which at that time was 7th, 8th and 9th grade.

By school system rules we had to have an eye exam from an Optometrist before starting any odd numbered school year. All went well for Ray and I until the exam before  9th grade. As usual I was cursed with better then 20/20 vision and didn't need glasses that I really wanted. Ray on the other hand had gone Myopic or near sighted at age 14 and in 1990 that was an bad age to start wearing glasses. Ray swore he didn't need glasses and swore he would only wear them if sitting in the back of a classroom and couldn't see the board. A funny thing happened that summer at a minor league baseball game in the town that we lived in. I'm sitting with Ray and 2 other friends in our seats up high and I along with the other 2 can see the scoreboard fine that is blurry to Ray. We weren't really big on baseball but with a special for teenagers we went to a few games anyway. Ray thinks were kidding him when we say the scoreboard looks clear to us. Ray decides to bring his glasses to the next game and finds out we were telling the truth. Though Ray still hates everything about glasses he starts wearing them is full time by school starting pleasing his parent. Ray was told at the Optometrist anywhere from as needed to full time We finish what is considered our freshman though it's still at the junior year and Ray's fears that all his friends would ditch him due to wearing glasses prove untrue. Ray has probably the best looking freshman in school for a girlfriend until on friendly terms they go different ways. Before our sophomore year I'm not required to have an eye exam but Ray's Optometrist has retried but suggested he have on every year until around age 20. A new Lens Crafters had opened in town and about that time the feahterwate lenses came out. If you were around in 1990 you might remember a commercial for Featherwates that says little Danny's glasses are so balky or something like that. Danny puts on a pair of featherwates and says I can hardly tell I've got them on. Ray's family takes him to the independent Optometrist adjacent to that store. Ray's who still hates everything about glasses even telling me I'm crazy for wishing I needed them prescription is up to a  -2 in both eyes with some Astigmatism. I happen to be in a store near the Lens Crafters when I see Ray picking out new glasses along with his Dad. There is a 2 pair special and Ray's Dad wants him to try the featherates. Ray gets 2 pair of glasses one with featherwates and one regular pair. When school starts Ray and I both having last names that start with L are in the same homeroom. I'm surprised to see Ray wearing the regular pair. I ask why not the lighter pair and Ray says the regular glasses are not that much heavier. I personally liked the frames Ray picked for the lighter lenses better.

Our sophomore year goes on and Ray and I both take drivers ed. the first semester as we will be able to get our licenses shortly after it ends. Ray of course is restricted to corrective while to my chagrin I have no trouble with the vision screening. In March we both get or drivers licenses and as busy as we both are get cars from our parents.  The school year ends and both Ray and I are required to have eye exams that summer. I again show better then 20/20 vision while Rays prescipton only changes in regards to Astigmatism. Ray even though he's told that his current glasses still in good shape will do fine but this time his Mom is with him and insists on 2 new pair one with the featherwate lenses. Ray again wears either the glasses he's already had or the pair with regular lenses. Both pair of featherwates are rimless at the bottom and Ray does not like the way they feel on his face. 

After our junior again I'm not required to have and eye exam but Ray has one as suggested. I drive Ray to his exam that with parental permission he has been able to come to by himself. The reason I drove Ray is if he has his eyes dilated but the Dr says it's not needed. Rays eyes are now stable at 17 have no change in prescription. Ray is happy because among other things he hates about glasses is picking out new ones. Ray parents agree that he doesn't need to pick out new ones. Ray is told at that exam tha the can now wait 2 years before the next one.

We start our senior with some of us planning to go to work and some like Ray planning on going to a 4 year college in a town about 30 minutes away. The senior year is filled as expected with anxious moments but in the end all goes well. We go thru all the graduation ceremonies and prepare for a new start in life. I had started working part time as a high school senior for an upscale store and when offered a mangement position I not being crazy about college take it where I still work to this day. Ray goes on to the 4 year college graduation with honors and takes a job in a law firm. Ray had considered law school but due to his Dad being disabled in an auto accident puts those plans on hold.

I continue my near lifelong friendship with Ray and his prescription remains fairly stable. My eyes do not change but by 2017 I'm doing a lot on the computer and seem to be getting eye strain. I have my eyes examined still showing no need for prescription glasses but I'm told of something that may help me. I'm told to order a pare of non prescription glasses with blue blocker lenses and I do from www.zenni optical.com. I order the glasses and they all but eleminate the eye strain. I know what I'll do when the time for readers comes if my distance vision is still good. I will order a pair of progressive with the top clear and the blue blockers but I'm not ready for that yet.

Ray and I both marry and by chance both our wives wear glasses and neither has even worn contacts. My wife and I have a 10 year son who was recently diagnosed Myopic and prescribed glasses of -.75 in both eyes with minor Astigmatism. Ray and his wife have an 8 year old daughter who does not need glasses yet but has shown signs of Hyperopia. 

Note this story is fantasy but I tried the featherwates in the 90's for a -2 and did not like them. I wore the regular pair most of the time. A 1989 commercial can be found on you tube for the little kids featherwates.

https://vision-and-spex.com/ray-s-story-t1681.html