---
title: "Rob's tragic story."
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-09-18'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: A devastating tornado outbreak leaves a young boy orphaned, but with determination, he builds a successful life.
---
This story is fiction with one exception. The super tornado outbreak mentioned was very real. I was caught out in heavy rain delivering papers in one of only 2 counties in the area that did not see a tornado. That being said this story gets somewhat graphic but please remember none of the people mentioned are real.
Rob was born March 2 1974 to parents who lived in Bradenburg Kentucky about 45 miles down the Ohio River from Louisville. Rob was a premature baby and had to spend first month of his life in a very fine children's hospital in Louisville and that probably saved his life.
On April 3 1974 for the first time since Rob was born his parents decided to go home for the day to be with their 4 year old Daughter. A super tornado outbreak hit that day that devastated Brandenburg. Rob's parents, Sister and his Grandparents on his Mom's side who lived next door were all killed. The only close relative left was his Grandmother on his Dad's side who lived just across the Ohio River in Mauckport Indiana. The Grandmother who worked at a chicken plant in Corydon about 15 miles North took on the task of raising Rob and  getting help from very fine neighbors who would not take any money for their services. Rob's Grandmother worked until age 70 when he graduated high school and went to work at the Wal-Mart in Corydon. Rob by necessity got his driver's license and a car at 16 with money he made working on some area farms and then went to work at a couple of fast food places in Corydon. Rob even on school nights would often get home after 11 pm but never complained and did well in school.
Rob while working on one of the farms had briefly met Shelia and then after going to work at Wal-Mart ran into her again. The two who were the same age started dating in 1994. In 1996 the couple were married. Rob already a hard worker had risen quickly to the ranks at Wal-Mart and into management. Sheila works then and now as a title clerk for a new ca dealer in Corydon.
Rob's other Grandmother passed away in 1997 and left her house and all property to Rob. Rob and his Sheila who had lived with his Grandmother since getting married decided to sell the house and move to Corydon where they both worked then and to this day. Rob and Sheila decided the 15 miles each way down state highway 135 was too much. With the money from selling Rob's Grandmother's old house the couple bought a nice well kept older home in Corydon with modern updates.
Rob and Shelia badly wanted at least one child and after being married a about 5 years tired and tired with several false starts. Finally on Christmas day 2005  their Son Elmer James Wise was born. Rob and Shelia took the name Elmer from his Grandfather killed in the tornado. The couple planned on letting their Son use the name E. .J. or Jim or Jimmy. When Elmer was old enough to understand his name he said no I'm Elmer and I want to be called that.
Rob and Sheila have always had good eyesight. Sheila at around age 42 did not using "cheaters" and Rob was still reading at age 45 unaided. Elmer is on the wrestling team at school and has to take a sports physical every year. Until the start of this school year Elmer had always showed 20/20 vision. This year Elmer could not even read the 20/40 line and was referred to and Optometrist in the Wal-Mart where Rob works. Elmer was prescribed glasses with a prescription of -.1.75 R and 1.50 L. Of course Elmer would not wear glasses while wrestling but he realized he had been squinting to see the board at school. Elmer started wearing his glasses all day in school and about 75% the rest of the time. The exam and glasses happened in the summer before school started this year.
In Indiana as long as you don't have too many points on a drivers license a person only had to take the vision screening every 12 years below a certain age. Rob and Sheila both renewed in person in 2010 easily passing the screening and in 2016 both used the easy online renewal. One day Elmer's glasses were laying on the kitchen table while he was taking a shower and Rob just for fun put them on. Funny think happened as Rob could see out of Elmer's glasses. Rob who had not had an eye exam in some years and still thought his vision was ok said he wasn't going to schedule an exam. After Sheila and Elmer both told Rob he needed an exam he finally scheduled one.
Rob and Sheila who had scheduled her own exam both went to the Optometrist. Rob was still convinced he did not need glasses since he had no trouble reading unaided at age 45 and even bragged to friends and coworkers about it. Shelia was told her distance vision was good and she could either be prescribed reading glasses or progressive with the top clear. Sheila  decided to keep using the "cheaters". Rob's turn came and he had gone Myopic. Rob was prescribed glasses of -2.00 R and -1.75 left which is not only stronger then Elmer's but high for a first prescription. Rob asked why he could read without glasses and was told Myopic of his age often take off their glasses to read. Rob did get progressive which came in last week. The first thing Rob who was told the next time he renews his drivers license in person he will get the glasses restriction. Rob did notice driving at night has gotten easier.

https://vision-and-spex.com/rob-s-tragic-story-t1439.html