---
title: "Sara's job"
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-04-18'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: A young woman's life takes unexpected turns after inheriting money, buying a house, and getting glasses.
---
In 2015 then 22 year old Sara of Georgetown Kentucky graduated from college in her home town. Sara unlike many her age did have a driver's license and when her Mom didn't need her car she drove to college. When Sara's Mom needed her car she dropped her off at school. After graduating Sara got a job at a UPS location in the South end of Louisville. Since Louisville has decent public transportation Sara elected not to buy a car. Sara was lucky that she got an apartment just a block from the office building she worked in. In 2017 Sara was getting fed up with the apartment management not doing needed repairs. In January of 2017 Sara's Grandparents were killed when their car hit a patch of ice on I-64 and flipping while on the way to see her. When her Grandparents will was read Sara was surprised how much money she got. Sara had been told she was in the will but not how much she would get. Sara decided to buy a house and a car as she now had the money up front. Sara did not like Louisville and while riding through Southern Indiana with a co worker decided that is where she wanted to be. Sara bought a house in Clarksville Indiana just across the river from Louisville. Sara bought a car in Louisville and started making the move. Sara got her needed documents to switch her Kentucky driver's license to an Indiana driver's license and though she could register her car with no problem which was wrong. In Indiana an out of state title has to have the vin number checked by a police officer before being titled. Sara who had been told by her new neighbors to go to the Sellersburg Indiana license branch because they were easier to deal with and she took the good advice. To transfer her license to Indiana Sara had to take a written test and a vision screening. The written test was no problem but Sara who always had good vision growing up failed the vision screening. Sara almost passed with her right eye which would have been good enough for a license restricted to an outside rear view mirror but missed one too many letters on the 20/40 line to qualify. Sara who did not take the news too well went to a combination eye Doctor/Optical store that advertised an exam and glasses for $69. Sara could have got vision insurance at work elected to to thinking her eyes were good. Sara was not worried about the limited selection of frames at that price as she only planned to wear glasses when driving. Sara got glasses and had her car inspected so she could take care of getting an Indiana license and tag her car at the same time. Sara got her driver's license and tagged her car. Sara  gave up her apartment and starting living full time in Clarksville. Funny thing hapened with Sara's glasses which were a -1.25 R and -2.00 left. Sara vision had changed so gradually she hadn't noticed which the examing Dr. couldn't believe. Sara decided to wear glasses full time which is what her Dr. suggested. Today Sara is engaged planning to wear the same wedding dress her late beloved Grandma wore many years ago. Sara may have already gotten married but the venue the couple wants to hold their reception is booked for some time. Sara and future husband have not decided if they will live in her house of his house in nearby New Albany.

https://vision-and-spex.com/sara-s-job-t1264.html