---
title: 'Shared Glasses:'
author: Specs4ever
date: '2018-07-12'
categories:
  - Specs4ever
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

                                                      
A while back I was in the Philippians and was invited to a formal dinner party by a friend of mine and his wife. I don’t know why I went, as I was only a visitor in the country, knew absolutely no one there, and had no intentions of staying around for any longer than my 2 week vacation. But things were to change in a big way; a way I could only have dreamed of.
 
My friends were mingling, visiting with numerous friends and coworkers. They were both teachers at an International School and it seemed that they had a very wide assortment of associates.  I wandered up to the bar to have my drink refreshed and on my way I saw a true vision of loveliness standing alone with an empty cocktail glass in her hand.  As I approached she turned my way and I could see that she was indeed one of the loveliest ladies I had ever seen.  She was not too tall – maybe about 5’6 or so, and she was very slim with a perfect sized waist. I couldn’t tell if she had nice legs or not as they were hidden by a long slinky floor length topless gown. Her breasts were not huge, but the upper parts that were exposed looked to be just about the perfect size.  Her face was framed by long dark tresses that curled slightly as they came down to her shoulders.  And right in the middle of that angelic face a lovely pair of very powerful minus glasses sat perched tight to the bridge of her nose. The cut in showed that lenses of her glasses were quite powerful, but they did not look to be as thick as the cut in indicated so I figured that they had to be a very high index glass with a thinner than the usual center thickness. This is actually very normal in the Asian countries as there are a fair number of high myopes in Taiwan and Hong Kong and even the Philippines.
 
“May I refresh your drink?” I asked.
 
“Certainly sir, and thank you for asking.” She replied.
 
I brought her drink back to her and we stood there making small talk for a few minutes. Her name was Breanna and she was unmarried. I introduced myself as Cody Walters and when dinner was announced we were still chatting. I asked her if she minded if I sat with her, and she told me that she would be sitting with her mom, her stepfather and her sister and her husband, but that I was welcome to join them.
 
When we were seated I was able to get a good look at her sister and her mother. Her sister Niccole was a little heavier than Breanna and was maybe an inch or so shorter, but she could not be considered as being overweight.  If I thought Breanna’s glasses were perfect then Niccole’s were the cream of the crop. Niccole wore a pair of very thick double myodiscs and although I am not really good at guessing prescriptions I suspected that they were done in regular plastic and were made as thick as the lens blank the lenses were crafted from would allow. To me they indicated a prescription that was at least in the mid -30D range. These sisters were both very high myopes, and on looking at their mother Beth I could see where they had inherited their myopia from.  Beth had on a pair of glasses very similar to the pair that Breanna wore and they showed that she had about the same amount of cut in as Breanna.  I had somehow fallen into what I would call a den of myopic perfection, as I am a lover of very nearsighted women.
 
I had a very enjoyable time with Breanna’s family. We chatted about everything, and nothing as we ate the delicious dinner, I learned that Simon, Beth’s husband was from Canada, and had grown up in the same part of Eastern Ontario as I had. He had come to the Philippines as the headmaster of the International school where my friends taught, and had retired a couple of years earlier. Bertrand, Niccole’s husband was also a Canadian, and had come from a small town in Northern Quebec to teach at the school while Simon was the principal. In conversation Bertrand mentioned that he would like to move back to Canada and teach there, because he and Niccole now had 2 daughters aged 3 and 1 that he wanted to have educated in Canada. I asked him why he did not go back, and he explained that while Simon and Beth could also move to Canada quite easily Beth would not go anywhere unless Breanna went as well. Unfortunately Breanna was past the age where she would be accepted under a family visa and she would have to apply to immigrate on her own, but there were no visa’s available.
 
I got thinking about this.  Either this was the luckiest day of my life and everything had fallen into place, or it had been a setup by my friends who had dragged me along to the party. I am unmarried, and I am a Canadian, so I could marry Breanna and could bring her to Canada as my wife, just like Simon and Bertrand would have to do. I could not believe it was a setup, because there was not another person in the whole wide world that had any inkling of my attraction to girls who wore strong glasses. The intention could possibly have been there to get me to meet Breanna, but there was no way anyone could know I would fall for her. Also, since my friends did not take me over to introduce me to Breanna, and left me to meet her on my own, I would rather think I was just lucky.
 
The following day Breanna had invited me to come over to the house that Simon and Beth lived in, which was also where she lived. There was a pool in the back yard, and the plan was to spend the afternoon swimming.  Breanna was a very good swimmer and she had prescription swim goggles to wear in the pool. I commented on the swim goggles and she told me that she had Simon to thank for her swim goggles, and even her glasses. I asked her what she meant by that, and she told me an almost incredible story.
 
Breanna was born when her mother was 15. Her father was a fisherman, but didn’t always make a lot of money. Niccole came along when Breanna was 5, but her father had drowned when the boat he was working on sank in a storm shortly before Niccole was born. Beth had always been very nearsighted, and while she was in school, and after she married there had been enough money to buy her glasses when she needed them. But after Henry, her husband died there was no money for anything but food and basic clothing.  Raising two children with virtually no income was extremely hard for Beth, and when Breanna was sent home from school with a note suggesting that Breanna should have her eyes tested Beth didn’t know what she was going to do. She could not afford the money that she needed to have Breanna’s vision tested, nor did she have any money to buy a pair of glasses for Breanna.
 
Beth did the only thing that she could do. She still had all of her own old pairs of glasses, and she had Breanna try them on to see if Breanna could see through any of the pairs.  Breanna apparently found a pair that she could see fairly well through, and this was how Breanna started wearing glasses in first grade at the age of 5.
 
By the time Breanna was 15 she had gone through all of Beth’s old pairs of glasses. She needed stronger glasses, but Beth was wearing the only stronger pair of glasses that they had. And Beth really needed her glasses, but as a loving mother, on days that Beth was only doing sewing for her clients she would let Breanna wear the more powerful glasses to school and she would wear the old pair that Brianna normally wore. But on the days that she was doing housecleaning Beth had to wear her own glasses and Breanna then had to go to school wearing a pair of glasses that were quite a bit weaker than the prescription she really needed. And Niccole, who was now 10 was wearing the pair that Brianna had worn before she started to wear the pair she had to wear now.  But the glasses that Niccole wore were quite a bit weaker than Niccole really needed and she also needed new glasses badly.  Actually, Niccole needed even stronger glasses at age 10 than Beth needed at age 30 and Beth was trying as hard as she could to save up enough money to have both her daughter’s eyes examined and to get new glasses for them.
 
Beth did her housekeeping and sewing for many of the teachers at the nearby International School. Normally these International Schools require the students that attend them to pay for their education and many of the students are children of foreign diplomats and business people who are stationed in the Philippines. For some reason the teachers that Beth worked for had taken an interest in Breanna and Niccole and they had invited the girls to become students there.  Both girls, while being very nearsighted, were also very bright, and even with being unable to see very well they were both at the top of their class.
 
Simon came from Canada when Breanna was 15 and took over as headmaster at the school.  It didn’t take long before Simon was drawn to the young student that sometimes wore 2 different pairs of very strong glasses and he started asking questions of the other teachers about both Breanna and Niccole.  Simon was very observant when it came to girls wearing glasses and he noticed that on the days when Breanna wore the oval tortoiseshell glasses she squinted at everything as if she could barely see anything at all. On the days when she wore the pair with the yellow frames she hardly squinted and seemed to be able to see fairly well. One day when she had the tortoiseshell glasses on he called her into his office and asked her why it appeared to him that she could barely see anything. Breanna then explained how she and her mother and her sister all shared her mother’s old glasses, and the days when she was wearing the yellow framed, even thicker glasses that her mother needed were the days that she could see fairly well. Simon was appalled when he heard this and he resolved to do something about getting proper glasses for the girls.
 
Simon was 55, and had retired from teaching in Canada as early as he could. The job of headmaster in the school in the Philippines had interested him and since the pay was fairly good he decided he would work for another 10 years as he already had a decent pension. Simon had been married, but as soon as his youngest daughter had left home for university his wife had told him she wanted a divorce.  He had been blindsided by this, but fortunately his ex-wife didn’t strip him of everything he had worked for as she was the one who wanted out of the marriage. The money he was earning would replenish whatever he had paid out to his wife and he was really enjoying the job. But what was intriguing Simon now was this little 15 year old girl who could barely see, even with the very thick glasses she was wearing. And when Breanna told him that her mother wore the yellow framed, even stronger glasses, which she sometimes wore to school he was very interested in meeting the mother.  One of the things that Simon had been attracted to over the years he had taught were students who needed glasses, and he had loved watching these kids as they went through life, needing stronger and stronger glasses until they reached a point where their parents bought them contact lenses, ending Simon’s viewing pleasure.
 
Over the years Simon had been very careful while he watched over the kids who wore glasses. He had never made an inappropriate comment, nor had he asked the kids any questions about their eyesight. Once in a while he had noticed a student wearing new, stronger glasses and he had commented that their new glasses looked very nice on them, but had left it at that. He was not sure how he could approach Breanna’s mother and first he investigated the family by checking out Breanna and Niccole’s files.  This was how Simon then discovered that the girls had been both invited to be students, and that they did not pay any fees. He then found out that their mother was the housecleaner for most of the teachers so he asked some of the other teachers who they used for housekeeping. Most of them gave him Beth’s name and he knew he now had a way of approaching Breanna’s mom.
 
Beth was willing to clean Simon’s apartment one day every month. Since Simon lived alone he generally kept his place pretty clean on his own, and did not really need a house cleaner. However, after Breanna’s mom cleaned it for the first time he was surprised and very satisfied with the nice clean appearance of the apartment.  He went back to see Beth and asked her if she could possibly come every 2 weeks and she agreed. Simon made sure he dropped by Beth’s home the evening the day after Beth cleaned his apartment to pay her in cash. Most of the time all 3 of them were home, and one evening a couple of months after Beth had started house  cleaning for him he asked her why Breanna had not gotten new glasses yet.  Beth told him that she was a single mom, and she just didn’t make enough money so that she could save up for new glasses for herself and both of her daughters. Simon didn’t say anything that week, but 2 weeks later when he again went back to pay Beth he told her that he was willing to pay for new glasses for her and her girls.  Beth didn’t want him to do this after she realized that Simon was not asking for any sort of payback, and finally she told Simon that if he really wanted to do that she would clean his place every week for the next year for free.
 
Beth, Breanna and Niccole all got their eyes examined and got new glasses.  Beth had a prescription of around -22D, and Breanna was right at -24D. Niccole, who was only 10 at the time she got her first pair of glasses that she could actually see well with had a first prescription right about -25D. The eye doctor told Beth in Simon’s presence that she could expect both Breanna and Niccole to need stronger lenses in the future, and that it would be best if she could bring the girls in every 6 months for a checkup.  
 
It took a few days before they all had their new glasses.  Breanna and Niccole came to Simon’s office the first day they had them and they thanked Simon for helping them get new glasses. Beth was not getting paid now for cleaning Simon’s apartment every week so Simon didn’t have any reason to stop by to see her.  But he wanted to see Beth wearing her new glasses so he made a point to drop by their rather dilapidated house. Simon loved the new look that Beth’s glasses gave her and he discovered that he was even more attracted to her than he had ever been to his wife.  It certainly didn’t hurt that Beth was a very attractive young lady who had just turned 30.  Simon hesitated to ask Beth out on a date because she was only a year older than his own daughter, but finally he couldn’t stand it any longer and he asked her to dinner one Friday evening.
 
By the time I met them Beth and Simon had known each other for a little longer than 9 years, had dated for a year and then had married.  Now Beth had turned 40, Breanna was 25, and Niccole was 20.  Nicolle had married Bertrand when she was 16 and they had their first daughter when she was 17. Bertrand, who was 22 at the time had almost lost his job at the school when it was discovered that he was going to marry Niccole, who was still a student.  But there was nothing illegal about this in the Philippines so Simon intervened and Bertrand was still teaching. It was very obvious that Bertrand was deeply in love with Niccole and I suspected that, like myself and Simon, it was probably her very strong glasses that had been the main attraction for him.
 
There was definitely something in the females genes that tended to make the girls very myopic. Bertrand and Niccole had 2 daughters, Lily and Grace.  Lily was 3 and had been wearing glasses since she was a year old. Her first prescription had been -10D and now at age 3 she wore glasses that were -12D. Grace had just gotten her first glasses, and they were very close to the -10 that Lily had started with.  I thought that it was entirely possible that if Brianna and I had children the kids would also be very nearsighted, especially if they were girls, but I really didn’t care.
 
I had called my boss and I asked him for a 2 week extension on my vacation.  He agreed, and I spent the 2 extra weeks convincing Breanna that we loved each other and that we should get married. It didn’t hurt that Simon was interested in returning to Canada with Beth, and that Bertrand and Niccole would be willing to move if Simon and Beth did as well. Now with Breanna marrying me I would be able to sponsor her as my wife, and we could all live in Canada.
 
I had to return home the day after the wedding. I didn’t want to, but I needed my job and my boss really couldn’t cover for me any longer. I am a firefighter for a fairly large municipality and I usually work 4 days on with 3 days off. Sometimes I can trade days with the other men, and I managed to build up another week off over the next month so I flew back to Manilla to spend the week with Breanna.
 
The first night I was back with Breanna we spent most of the night in bed making love. Every time I looked into her beautiful brown eyes, minified by the thick lenses of her strong glasses, I gave thanks to my friends, who had taken me to that dinner party only a couple of short months ago.  I had thanked them for that at the wedding, and they had told me then that they had hoped I would meet Breanna, because they knew she was the only unattached female that was going to be there. It wasn’t really a setup, but it came very close to one.
 
Specs4ever
Oct 2016

https://vision-and-spex.com/shared-glasses-t991.html
