---
title: ".Sometimes you don't really need glasses."
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-09-09'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: "Colton moves to a new town, gets glasses, and finds solace in slot car racing."
---
Some things in this story are true. The glasses scam or people mentioned are not. When now 20 year old Colton was 14 going on 15 in 2014 his parents moved from Southport Indiana a suburb of Indianapolis to Brooks Kentucky. Colton's Dad a respected Surgeon took a job in a Louisville hospital. Louisville is just North of Brooks. Colton's Mom a nurse was easily able to line up a job in a Doctors office before the move. Colton's Mom and Dad are both Myopic and he has fraternal twin Brothers in college. One is Myopic and the other ins Hyperopic. Colton is the one in the family with good vision which disappointed him as he wanted to be like .his older Brothers. Colton's parents insisted on an Optometrist exam every year for him even though the Dr. in Southport said every 2 years would suffice. When Colton got settled in the Louisville area his  parents set about getting him and themselves a regular MD. an Optometrist and a Dentist. Colton who had braces but they w ere coming off within 6 months of the move. Colton was taken to a local Optometrist and it seemed he got his wish as he could not read all of the very bottom line on the pretest and was told he needed glasses for full time wear. The Optometrist put the specs on Colton and had him look like the window. Colton did notice the leaves on the trees were clearer then before. Colton was both nervous and excited about wearing glasses. As a typical teenager he wondered what he would look like. This was in the Summer before his Freshman year and Colton's new classmates would not know he had just gotten glasses. Colton decided if asked how long he has been wearing glasses he would say 5 or 6 years. Colton's glasses come in and since his parents gave permission for him to pick them up by himself he rides his bike to the Optical store and picks them up. Colton loves his "new look" and the difference they make in his vision though is is not very much. Colton wears his glasses as much as possible until the headaches go away and then goes from the time he gets out of bed until he goes to bed only taking them off when he's in this shower. Colton is told when first prescribed glasses he would not pass the drivers permit exam without them. Colton and his parents ask what kind of googles he should get if he decides to play football which he did in middle school. The Optometrist says the adjacent shop has some good sports googles for football which his parents said let's get even though he is not sure about playing football as he did in middle school. Colton starts school and decides not to play football but uses the googles in pickup games of basketball and baseball. Colton makes several new friends at his new school and it s eems nobody asks him how long he has been wearing glasses. As the school year goes on Colton gets his braces off as scheduled and continues wearing glasses just as prescribed. Colton hates the Louisville area for a couple of reasons. Colton growing up in the Indianapolis area loved to go to both Indiana Pacers NBA games and Indianapolis Colts NFL games. Louisville has neither a professional basketball of football team. Colton says when he graduates high school he is going to look for a job in the Indianapolis area and move back there against the wished of his parents who want him to go to college and can afford to send him. Colton when old enough gets his driver's license and his parents get him a car because with their schedules it's easier for him to get places. About the only thing Colton likes in Brooks is being the only car racing fan in the family he raced slot cars in Indianapolis but the track is in Indianapolis and it was hard for him to get there. Bullitt Dragway a slot car track with a Louisville address is really closer and close to where he lived. Colton was happy when he found out some of his cars could run the divisions with the only changes required was gearing due to the size of the tracks being different.  Colton graduates high school in 2018 and takes a job in the Louisville area at a company that also operates in Greenwood Indiana. Colton has to stay at his job in Louisville for 12 month and be in good standing to transfer to Greenwood which he does. Colton who has gotten new glasses every year in Kentucky gets his transfer in July of 2019 and after briefly staying with relatives still living in the area gets his own apartment. Before getting his own place Colton as required by law goes to the Indiana BMV to get his driver's license changed from Kentucky to Indiana with all the required documents in order. The BMV clerk is surprised to see the glasses restriction on his Kentucky license saying his glasses don't look that strong. The clerk an older gentleman explains he is a retired Optician and thinks Colton who did not even try the Kentucky exam without glasses should take them off and see if he can pass the Indiana exam. Colton to his surprise easily passes the vision screening without glasses. The clerk offers to give Colton the name of an Optometrist in the area and suggests he get an eye exam to see if he needs glasses full time or possibly just for night driving if at all. Colton thanks the man and explains he plans to go back to the same Optometrist he had when he lived in the area before. The clerk asks the name and says she is a good on and for the last 3 years before retiring I worked with her. Colton makes an appointment and goes for an exam. The first clue comes when the machine that measures his glasses comes up with a -25 for both eyes which is the lowest Myopic prescription there is. The Optometrist comes in and says the Auto-Refractor show you eyes the same as they were when you were here before and I can't figure out why you were prescribed glasses. The Optometrist does the complete exam and is still perplexed until she hears the name of the Optical store Colton went to. The same store had gotten into trouble in Indiana for prescribing unneeded glasses. Colton is told he does not now or probably never needed glasses. Colton tries not wearing glasses and starts getting headaches about like the ones he got when he first started wearing glasses. Colton who at his job does a lot of work on computers had gotten blue blocker glasses which seemed to help with eye strain. Colton schedules an MD visit and no reason is found for the headaches and talks to his Dad who can't explain it either. Colton schedules a follow up with the Optometrist and is told you have been wearing glasses for 5 years and the headaches should go away. The Optometrist explains it's been 5 years with glasses and Colton decides to go on wearing glasses because every time he tries to go without them he gets headaches. Colton is actually happy he can continue wearing glasses even though he has 20/20 vision and apparently read some of the 20/15 line in his old Optometrist office.

https://vision-and-spex.com/sometimes-you-don-t-really-need-glasses-t1421.html