---
title: The girl who changed everything
author: glassesgirl17
date: '2020-11-24'
categories:
  - glassesgirl17
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: The arrival of a new girl changes an introverted girl's life, forcing her to face her fears and open up.
---
- Hi y'all, this is my first time posting a story, also English isn't my first language so sorry in advance for any mistakes. I hope you enjoy reading it:) -


The girl who changed everything

"Coming" I said with a rather sleepy voice after waking up to my mom banging on the door of my room. I looked at my phone. 8:15. I jumped up got dressed as quickly as I could, brushed my teeth, took my bag and sprinted down the hill where lived. Luckily I reached the train on time and managed to jump in the second before the doors closed. After spending a minute breathing heavily I opened my bag and realised I forgot to bring a book. 

I spent the next 15 minutes on the train thinking about how I was going to survive the day. I never talked to anyone at school unless I absolutely needed too and I never even looked up from my book during class because I was afraid that the teacher would ask me something. Basically I just didn't want anyone to pay attention to me because I was an introvert, so I just read books to keep people from talking to me, also I just like reaading in general. 
I couldn't come up with a better plan than just paying attention to the teacher or scribbling on a sheet of paper, so I entered the building for the first time without a book in my hands, sat down and started doodling in my school books. 
I didn't look up when my history teacher came in however I listened to what he said as I wasn't focused on the storyline of a book instead. I didn't pay much attention when the teacher started talking about a new student called Noemi who just moved here because I didn't care about who I shared a classroom with. Hence I almost had a heart attack when I saw a shadow appear next to me and heard a soft voice saying "Hey, I'm Noemi, can I sit here?" It took me a second to make sure that the girl was talking to me and I muttered: "y-yeah sure". She sat down and after a while of awkward silence with only the teacher talking in the background Noemi asked for my name. For the first time I looked at her and I realised that she was actually gorgeous. I bet some of the boys must've had a crush on her straight away. I blushed - I'm not used to being talked to a lot - but I manged to tell her that my name was Luna.
A second later I heard the teacher say "Luna, now that we know that you have the ability to talk, would you please share your thoughts on the topic you should actually have your mind on right now" I felt my face going red - I had absolutely no clue what we were talking about - I realised that there was something written on the blackboard, automatically I squinted my eyes as hard as I could but there was no chance I could've made out any of it. Sure I had to squint sometimes before but I haven't realised that my eyes where this bad by now. "Holocaust" I heard Noemi whisper next to me and I blushed again because I realised that she must've seen that I couldn't read the teachers writing on the blackboard. Then I started talking about the holocaust and after a minute of me talking as quietly as usual the teacher seemed satisfied, she needed to repeat my words though as I talked too quietly for the last 2 rows to unterstand what I said. I whispered "thank you" in Noemi's direction and she smiled. 

After the lesson our teacher walked up to me asking whether I might need glasses as she saw me squinting at the board - I was really embarrassed especially as Noemi was still sitting next to me, so I just told her that I tore my contacts in the morning and couldn't find my spare glasses in the hurry. Actually I didn't have either because I never really realised that I'd need them. I didn't dare to tell my mom that I couldn't see that afternoon because I didn't want to wear glasses as I was afraid people might comment on them when I started wearing them.


The next day, I got up on time, I put a book into my backpack as usual and started reading the moment I got onto the train. Before the train started to move I flinched as I heard someone say "Good morning Luna" I looked up from my book, squinting into the direction the voice came from. I saw someone getting closer to me and when they got closer I realised it was Noemi "oh hi" I answered. As she asked "Still haven't found your glasses?" I started blushing - she must've seen me squinting again. "I lied...I don't have glasses...or contacts...and I don't want either" "You do realise that you can't see very well without them though - you can't read anything on the board from the front row..." I heard Noemi say. I just shrugged and continued reading my book to signal that I didn't want to talk about it, so she kept quiet until we got off the train. 

I still held my book when we started walking to school until Noemi told me to put it away as I might run into something if I had my eyes in the book. She sounded quite concerned even though we didn't even have to cross the street once but still I put the book down and I realised again how much of a blur the world around me had gotten by now.
Noemi then told me that her family and her moved here because her dad got a new job and when she told me where she lived now I realised that they moved into the flat right next to us, which explained why she got onto the same train as I did. After I mentioned that we were neighbours she somehow didn't only manage to convince me go home together after school but also too show her around town the next day. 
I spent most of the day reading as usual, however I put the book into my backpack when the last period was over and spent all the way home talking to Noemi. It was actually the first time that I remember enjoying having a conversation with someone which made me really look forward to tomorrow.

When I got home, I couldn't stop thinking about Noemi, I've never felt as comfortable around anyone before, never met anyone as beautiful as her. But I couldn't have a crush on her, she's a girl...or could I? I started googling, even took some of those stupid 'Am I gay?' -quizzes on the internet and came to the conclusion that I'm a lesbian, it all made sense now that I never showed any interest in dating anyone 'cause I just never liked any of the guys. At some point I fell asleep thinking of Noemi.

I woke up and realised that it was saturday morning. I got ready and met Noemi outside at 10 o'clock. I squinted at Noemi who was walking in my direction and when she came closer, I could see that she was wearing glasses today. After she greeted me with a hug, which caused me to blush, I realised, that her glasses looked quite strong you could see some rings on the sides when she turned her head and her gorgeous green eyes looked like emeralds. 

Noemi then told me that she had a surprise for me and handed me a small case, "open it" she said, smiling at me. As soon as I did that and saw the glasses inside, she went on "They were my first pair - rather strong for a first pair at -2.50, but I figured they're probably fine for you considering how bad your vision seems to be...go on, put them on." I hesititated for a second and suddenly, when I put them on the whole world came into focus, I couldn't believe my eyes how much clearer everything around me looked now. "Wow, I must've forgotten that this is how my vision is supposed to be like" Noemi smiled "You can keep them, I'm at -8 by now so they're no use for me anyways. I hope you don't mind me wearing glasses, my eyes can't bear contacts everyday so I wear glasses on the weekends, also I thought you'd feel better wearing your glasses if I was wearing mine as well" I smiled, thanked her and told her not worry, as she looked amazing in glasses - which was the truth. We spent the rest of the day talking and walking through the whole city and I never even thought of taking the glasses off. 

After showing her all parts of the town, both of us were quite hungry so we decided to go to a fastfood restaurant. We got in and Noemi stopped to read the menu which was written on big boards on the opposite wall. I pushed the glasses up and started squinting as I still couldn't read the menu, I moved a bit closer. When Noemi noticed that, she said: "so, they're a little bit too weak, huh? I could give you the pair I had next but they're probably too strong for you - they're -4 as I broke the pair I wore between those and the pair you're wearing right now." I thought about it for a second and asked her if I could try the stronger ones to see the difference which she agreed to. 

We spent the rest of the day together talking about whatever came to our minds and when we went home in the evening, I took off the glasses which made me realise again how bad my vision really was, I put them into my bag though as I didn't want my mom to see them. When we arrived there, Noemi asked me to come over the next day which I agreed too, we then hugged goodbye and both of us went home. After talking to my mom for a few minutes I went to my room, locked the door, put on the glasses again and looked in the mirror. I was really surprised that I actually liked the way I looked with them, because I always thaught that glasses were ugly until I saw Noemi with hers today. I started smiling when I thought about her but then got kinda sad because I realised that she'll never like me back. Girls like her are always dating the cool boys from the football squad there's no way she'd be into girls, let alone someone as shy as me. I started crying until I fell asleep.


The next day I went to Noemi after lunch. When I rang the door, her mom opened it and I introduced myself, then Noemi came to the door and we went to her room. She asked me why I didn't wear the glasses she gave me, I took them out of my bag and put them on, while explaining that I didn't want anyone to see me in them yet.

We then talked for a bit until she asked me if I wanted to try her next pair of glasses, which I did. When I put them on, I noticed how everything in the distance was now really crisp and clear, and so I told Noemi that these were even better than the previous ones. She then got a book, held it in front of my face and asked me if I could read it, but I had to push it away a bit to be able to focus. This meant that they were to strong according to Noemi, I still asked her if I could keep them as they felt wonderful on my face and Noemi said that I could. I then pulled out my phone to see what I looked like in these glasses and I liked the frames even better than the other ones.

I looked around her room and saw a little rainbow badge on a shelf, when Noemi realised what I looked at, she sat there like frozen for a second and then said: "Well, I need to tell you something. We didn't move here because my dad got a new job...it was because I was bullied" I saw that her eyes were filling with tears "they didn't accept me for who I am...I'm a lesbian - so that's why I've got this badge - I used to wear it either on my backpack or on my jacket but I didn't dare to wear it and to come out at the new school because I thought that the same thing would happen as last time. I didn't have any friends back then and no one accepted me for liking girls" I hugged her "I'm... I'm into girls too" She smiled at me and told me that that's what she hoped for and asked me wether I wanted to go to the cinema on a real date, which I agreed too. 

We went there right away and decided to watch a romantic movie, which turned out to be quite dramatic and both of us ended up crying in the end. After we went out we stood in a corner and Noemi told me that she needed to go to the bathroom to fix her make-up, because she was sure she looked like a zombie by now. I smiled at her and told her that she is the most gorgeous girl I've ever seen with or without make-up (which really was just speaking truth) she then said "so are you" and kissed me on the lips. wow, that really was first kiss. Both of us were smiling, nothing has ever felt so right, I kissed her again, more passionately this time. We then went to a bar to get something to drink and went home afterwards, on the way we agreed on getting up a bit earlier to spend some time together before going to school tomorrow. We then kissed goodbye and went home and as I took off my glasses just before walking in, my eyes were still used to the stronger glasses and everything looked even blurrier than usual. 

My mom was watching TV when I went in and automatically I squinted to see what she was watching, which she must've noticed as she told me that she noticed me squinting quite often in the last few weeks and that she'd make an appointment to have my eyes examined in case I needed glasses. "yeah, fine" I answered, because I didn't want to show my excitement. A few days ago, I would've hated the thought of getting glasses, but now I can't wait to be able to wear them all the time. 

"Mom, I need to tell you something", she smiled at me and asked me what was the matter. "I...I like girls...the way I'm supposed to feel about boys...I'm a lesbian...please don't hate me now" She smiled, hugged me and told me that she'd always love me no matter what. I then told her about my date with Noemi, and my mom told me that she was happy for us and that Noemi would be welcome here anytime. After talking for a bit longer we decided that we'd go to sleep.


The next day I got up early and got ready. I wasn't sure which pair of glasses I wanted to wear for school so I tried on both seperately and then got the idea for trying both of them togerher. Wow, sure especially my near vision was bad right now but the way it felt to see through both lenses just really turned me on. That made me decide to pack the stronger pair.

I went outside and waited for Noemi in front of the house after a few minutes the door went open and I squinted at the person walking out, when I was sure that it was Luna I smiled at her, she was gorgeous wearing her glasses again, I walked in her direction and kissed her. "You look cute when your squinting like that, you know", she said. "Stop it, it's not funny" We started walking to the train station and I put on my glasses around the corner so my mom wouldn't find out that I wear glasses. Noemi smiled, "I think you're even prettier wearing glasses." "So are you.", I answered and kissed her again. 

We then got on the train and went to the park near our school because we still had some time left before school would start. We layed down on the grass staring into the clouds and talked until 5 minutes before the bell rang. We got up, went into the building and entered the classroom. When we sat down, I noticed that some of the other students started whispering. "Do they talk about my glasses? Are you sure they don't make me ugly?" I asked Noemi. And she told me that I looked beautiful and that it was probably because we were holding hands when we got in. I totally forgot about that, so did they think that we're a couple now? Should we try to keep it a secret or be open about it? I asked Noemi what she thought about it and we agreed that they would find out anyways so it would be unnecessary to hide that we had something going on. 

Then our teacher came in and started her lesson, when she saw that I was wearing glasses now, she smiled. The next three hours were pretty uneventful until after our french class, Noemi put her hand on my leg and I held it not thinking anyone would even notice that we were holding hands. Suddenly I heard the guy behind us say "OMG gross, look they're GAY! Stop holding hands, you're making me throw up!" Noemi turned around right away, "You know what makes me vomit Nick? Hearing your ugly voice! It's 2020 - either travel 200 years back in time or get yourself educated!" She kept arguing with him and everyone else was just watching. After a minute or so, two of the poular boys from the last row - Shawn and Louis - got up and stood between Nick and Noemi, I got really scared for Noemi, got up and stood in front of her trying to protect her. Shawn then turned to Nick, "Hey Nick, watch this, and don't you dare vomit on my clothes!" and they kissed. The whole classroom fell silent until Nick screamed "What the fuck, how is this even allowed to happen in public" Suddenly the whole class started to argue with Nick now until our english teacher came in, he calmed everyone down and asked us to explain the situation, which we did. He then decided to ditch his plans and spontaneously held a lesson about the LGBTQ+ community, our history and discrimmination in general, afterwards he took Nick to see the headmaster who talked to him about the school's rules and warned him that he'd be suspended if he ever discrimminated against any students again. 

After the lesson was over we thanked Shawn and Louis for standing up for us and risking their popularity. After talking to them for a bit they suggested that we should hang out sometime and maybe go on a double date, which we agreed to.

The next few hours went by quickly, I had a bit of a headache by now, probably from wearing the stronger glasses but it was bearable and as the bell had rung just a second ago, we were about to go home anyways. On the way we each got a cup of coffee, which we were desperately in need of and until we got home we decided to spend the rest of the day together.

 We went to my place as my mom wouldn't be home in the next few hours and Noemi texted her parents that she's staying at a friends. We sat on my bed and after a bit of talking, snuggling and kissing we were about to take it one step further, I was about to open Noemi's blouse, when she said, "Wait, I've got something pepaired for this moment. I hoped it would be today so I brought what we need with me." She got up and got a box out of her bag, "Open it, I promise, these will make it even better." I opened the box and inside were a bunch of glasses that looked really strong. "These are my mom's old glasses. I was supposed to donate them but I didn't, because I love the feeling they give me when I put them on, and I think they might do the same for you, as you already like your stronger glasses better. Here take these for the start, they're the weakest one's. They're -9, so definitely too strong for you to be able to see, try them on, I promise they will feel great." I got kinda exited, took my glasses off and put on the -9 pair. "Wow", everything was really blurry now but it felt amazing, I smiled at Noemi. "I knew you'd like them, you're so hot, now give me a second." I waited trying to get used to the blur until Noemi sat next to me. "Let me take a picture of you so you can see what you look like" She then held the phone in front of my face but I couldn't make out anything, I pulled down the glasses so I could look over the frame to see the picture when Noemi suddenly held the phone further away. "Very funny" I started squinting and got closer to the screen to make out the picture. Noemi however put the phone away "You're really turning me on right now" I squinted at her, still looking over the top of the glasses, and when I got closer to her face I realised that the glasses she wore now looked extremely strong. "Wow" her looks really turned me on now. She smiled and pushed up my glasses so her face became blurry again. I started making out with her and slept with her. We layed on the bed breathing heavily, both smiling, I've never felt so amazing in my entire life. 

For a while we just layed there until we decided to switch back to our normal glasses, when I had found mine and put them on I realised that Noemi was still feeling around for her glasses with her hands, so I took her glasses handed them to her. She put them on, thanked me and squinted at me. "I still need to put in my contacts again though, I always wear them underneath my glasses to increase my prescription, so right now my eyesight is probably almost as bad as yours without glasses," she said. I asked her why she wanted to increase her prescription and she told me that it was because of the way strong glasses feel and how they look. This reminded me of the picture that she took of me before hand. "I think I want that too...can I see the picture you took earlier" She was finished with putting in her contacts and put on her glasses again. "Sure, if you're sure that that's what you want, I can help you making your eyes worse," she got her phone and showed me the picture. I smiled, "yes, I would love that," I really liked the way I looked with these glasses and I want to become dependent on glasses as strong as these.

"Okay so I've got an idea how we can make this work. You'll make an appointment with your eye doctor in about 2-3 weeks there you'll wear my old -2.50 glasses, tell him you borrowed them from a friend because you couldn't see anymore because you're prescription would be to high for a first time glasses wearer otherwise. Until then you're gonna wear the -4 glasses to school because you can read with them and any other time except around your mom you'll wear my old pair, it's -7 so you get used to being overcorrected and so your eyes will get worse until then. We'll also order a pair of contacts for you to wear with your own glasses once you get them, they're gonna be between -3 and -4, depending on how well you can see with the -7 glasses. And if you choose a frame that looks similar to the -7 glasses, you can wear them instead of your actual glasses whenever you're ready. How does that sound?" 

I smiled "Thank you so much, I love you".
Shit did I really just say that? It's still too early for that...omg now she's gonna think I'm some weird creepy kid from next door. "I love you too, Luna," she smiled. "I don't know if it's too early for that but I don't care because everything just feel so right...Luna, do you want to be my girlfriend?" My heart started beating really fast "Omg, yes of course I do!" I kissed her. 

Suddenly I heared the sound of a door, mom must be home, I quickly took off my glasses and put them into a drawer in case she'd come in. Noemi asked me if I was ready to introduce her to my mom or if she should sneak out or something. I told her that I was sure my mom would like to meet her so we went to the kitchen where my mom was preparing dinner and I introduced Noemi to my mom as my girlfriend. After a few minutes of them talking my mom invited Noemi to stay for dinner, which she did and I was relieved to see them getting along so well. When we had finished eating Noemi and I went back to my room talking for a while until Noemi went home.


The next morning I got up early again and when I went out I saw a person standing outside, I squinted to make sure that it was Noemi waiting for me and as I got closer I realised that she was squinting too. "Good morning" I kissed her and we started walking to the train station, once we were around the corner I put on my glasses and then asked her why she was squinting earlier. "I didn't want to order new contacts in my current prescription as i prefer the glasses and I forgot to order new -4 contacts - I did order them today but I'll have to wait for two weeks 'til they arrive. So as I can't wear any of my mom's old glasses around anyone but you, I have to go undercorrected for the next 2 weeks." she explained and asked me to help her at school in case she needed to read something from the blackboard, which I of course agreed to. 

We then got on the train and went to the same park as the day before where Noemi told me that she had a surprise for me and asked me to take off my glasses an close my eyes. I felt her putting another pair of glasses on my face, "open your eyes" she said. "woah" it took me a few seconds to get used to the slight blur around me. "It's the pair I promised you yesterday, i'd guess they're about -3.5 or -4 diopters to strong for you which makes them perfect to increase your prescription - don't worry you'll get used to them pretty soon." I smiled, whispered "thank you" and kissed her. 

Shortly before the first lesson started i switched to the -4 glasses as there was no way I could've read anything with the -7 pair, and we went to school. 
Soon after the first lesson started, Noemi asked me to write bigger as she couldn't read anything on the board and neither could she read my handwritting unless she'd come quite close, so I moved my notes closer to her and started writing double the size i normally would have written which worked for her.
Once the teacher went out of the classroom Noemi said: "Can you believe I can't read a thing on that board anymore considering we're sitting in the front row and Mr. Johnson is usually writing rather big. I must be at least at -11 by now." So I asked her when she wanted to get new glasses and we decided to go to the opticians together that afternoon so Noemi could have her eyes tested.

A few hours later we went out of the school and decided to walk into the city as the bus there was always filled with people. Once we were a few minutes away from our school Noemi reminded me to switch to the stronger glasses and by the time we were at the opticians my eyes were so used to those glasses that I could even read a little bit with them on. As it turned out Noemi's prescription was -11.5 on the right eye and -12 on the left one and when the optician said that he was surprised that she hadn't noticed how bad her eyes had gotten Noemi explained that she did but she didn't want stronger glasses so soon again which the optician seemed to believe. When she went on about fast her prescription is going up, the optician even added another -0.50 diopters to each eye as she wouldn't need to buy new glasses that soon that way. He told her not to worry as her glasses would look amazing if we chose the right frames, so we spent an hour there with Noemi trying on different pairs and me taking pictures so she could see what she looked like, until we settled on one. The optician told her that her glasses would be ready on friday afternoon, so we thanked him and then went out to grab a coffee and went to Noemi's place where I stayed the whole night.

"Luna? Luna?!" I heard Noemi say. I realised that I must have been daydreaming: "Oh sorry I got all caught up in my thoughts, seeing our little girls probably getting first pair of glasses just reminded me of the time we first met. Do you remember how you were the reason that I got my first pair glasses, you really changed everything for me" "I sure do, you were pretty scared of needing them at first until you realised how hot I am with them on" she says sarcastically. I definitely couldn't deny that. Shortly after we got together Noemi's glasses got quite strong, around -12, and I realised that the stronger the glasses became, the more they turned me on. "I guess I wanted to be as hot as you when I got my own first pair a few weeks later" I say winking at her. "Stop it you're making me blush" she answeres as our daughters just got out of the examination room. We adopted the twins a year ago and after they told us they couldn't read the board at school on their first day of school yesterday, we decided to go to the opticians to have their eyes tested right away. "Mommy, Mama, the doctor said we're getting glasses!" Cara shouts exitedly. I'm glad to see a smile on Liza's an Cara's face and Noemi says: "Well then let's find the perfect frame for the two of you"

https://vision-and-spex.com/the-girl-who-changed-everything-t1898.html