---
title: The trip
author: soindiana88
date: '2020-03-17'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: "Follow Sherman's journey as he navigates the world of glasses and contacts, ultimately deciding which is truly best."
---
During the summer of 2017 17 year old incoming high school senior Sherman was flying to Florida for his annual visit to his grandparents on his Mom's side. The grandparents looked forward to seeing their only grandchild every year. Sherman by then was an old pro at the trip as this would be his fourth year of going by himself.
Sherman was first prescribed glasses at age 9 and it was not any kind of Doctor but Sherman himself who noticed he needed glasses for Myopia. Sherman riding in the back seat of the car with his Dad started asking if he should be able to see that sign and such. When told yes Sherman said I need to get my eyes checked. Sherman gets his glasses and is amazed at the difference they make and from almost day one wears them full time. As the years progress Sherman's glasses get stronger and finally by age 13 he -5R and -5.50L with some Astigmatism. It was at this visit the Optometrist suggests Sherman try contacts which he does. Sherman does not play school sports but does play some pickup basketball and football games so he and his parents say ok. Sherman does great with contacts following the schedule and is soon by design only wearing his glasses early in the morning before putting his contacts in and in the evening after removing them for the night. 
There is one time Sherman has trouble with his contacts. On his first flight with contacts (but not his first flight) he finds them uncomfortable. Sherman who on this flight had only had contacts for about a year did not know about problems flying with them. On the next 3 flights Sherman wears his glasses planning to put his contacts in when he gets to Florida. The problem comes on the 2017 flight when Sherman's luggage with his contacts and solution gets misdirected to another location.
Sherman's grandparents have his contact prescription faxed to a the optical store they use in Florida where they are willing to buy the contacts and solution he needs but there is a problem. Sherman is a few months from turning 18 and his grandparents did not think quick enough to lie and say the are his guardians. Clothes are bought from a thrift store so Sherman does not have to wear the same clothes for the two weeks he's there. Sherman wears his glasses the whole time he's there and finally the day before leaving Florida his luggage arrives. Sherman elects not to put in his contacts as it's in the evening the luggage arrives and he is leaving the next morning.
Sherman flies back home and this time his luggage arrives as he does. The trip to Florida was the first time Sherman had gone a whole day without contacts since first getting them. Sherman's Uncle picks him up from the airport as both parents are working and as usual they go out to eat as it is around lunch time. Sherman's Uncle expects him to go into the bathroom and put his contacts in as he had done in the past but this time he says no, I'll wait until I get home.
Sherman gets home and still doesn't put his contacts in while doing some thinking. Sherman during his time in Florida realizes how easy it was to just put his glasses on every morning and not worry about contact solution and rewetting drops. Sherman who joined Facebook after getting contacts for the first time posts a picture of himself in glasses asking what his friends think saying he's may give up contacts. The biggest support comes from his Mom who at work sees the post and shows it to one of her coworkers who to her knowledge has always worn glasses. Sherman's Mom then hears the woman's horror story about wearing contacts years ago in high school and the infections and at one time the Doctor's feared she would lose her vision in her left eye which thankfully she didn't but vowed to never wear contacts again not let any kids she had wear them.
Sherman the next day as scheduled to have his senior class pictures taken and decides to go ahead for the first time in several years wear his glasses in the pictures. Sherman who by then had both his drivers license and a car had driven himself to the appointment. As his senior year starts Sherman is now exclusively wearing glasses and many of his classmates who had never seen him wearing them think he just got them which is of course wrong. The summer before his senior year Sherman's prescription was unchanged for the first time since getting glasses.
Sherman graduates high school and works days while taking a light load of college classes 3 nights a week. Sherman continues wearing only glasses and doesn't even get the contact exam the last couple of times at the Optometrist. Today Sherman is still working days and going to college at night hoping for a better job when he has a degree which will probably take 6 to 7 years due to working and only going to college part time.
Sherman is actually happy his luggage was lost because that is what caused him to realize what a pain contacts are and going back to glasses.

https://vision-and-spex.com/the-trip-t1649.html