---
title: The Twins  (Part 2)
author: soundmanpt
date: '2018-11-02'
categories:
  - soundmanpt
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: Melissa surprises Ron by wearing glasses, sparking a conversation about her vision problems and Alissa's disapproval.
---
So when Melissa arrived she rather quickly headed for the lower level to watch the game. Ron, that's Alissa's husband's name was already down their watching the final minutes of the game that was on before the Bengals game. He hadn't seen Melissa wearing glasses and was surprised to see her wearing glasses. Apparently Alissa hadn't mentioned it to him about taking her for her eye exam a few months earlier. His attention quickly turned from watching the game to wanting to know all about Melissa getting glasses. He was very flattering and couldn't stop telling her how nice she looked wearing glasses. He asked one question after another about her glasses. He wanted to know what caused her to get her eyes examined and if she was having vision problems before getting her eyes checked. And of course what she needs her glasses for. And does she have to wear them all the time? She told him that she knew her eyes were straining m ore than they should be when at work and how her eyes were almost constantly bloodshot and sore feeling. She told him that a co-worker said that she had the same issues with her before she got her glasses and that she should get her eyes checked to see if she might also need to start wearing glasses. So she made an appointment and she wasn't too surprised that she wasn't able to read hardly anything on the bottom portion of the eye chart. She knew then that she would be getting glasses for sure. She told him how Alissa was very helpful to her in choosing her glasses because she really wasn't able to see very well because of the dilation still in her eyes. That was why she asked Alissa to drive her that day. She told Ron that Alissa was going to be upset with her because she really wasn't happy that happy about her needing to wear glasses, but she was glad that the doctor told her that she only needed to wear glasses when driving and while at work. But after she got them and started wearing them they quickly became very comfortable to her and she was able to see so much better keeping her glasses on all the time. Ron was still curious at how well Melissa could see without her glasses and asked her what her eyesight was like without her glasses? She told him that her glasses really aren't very strong but strong enough to make a noticeable difference in seeing things clearly. She took off her glasses so Ron could try them on for himself. He said that he could notice a bit of difference in how things looked on the TV. While he was trying her glasses she said that she could see the players on the TV but she couldn't make out how much time was left or what the down was. Ron handed her glasses back to her and she put them back on right away as they both settled in to watch the game. Melissa noticed out of the corner of her eye that Ron was constantly looking at her. When half-time came they both went up to grab a few snacks and something to drink. As soon as they got in the kitchen Ron kind of scolded Alissa for not telling him about Melissa getting glasses. Alissa said that she had simply forgot and that she thought Melissa wasn't going to be wearing them except at work, but apparently she is wearing her glasses much more than just at work. Ron said that he thought that glasses was a really good look for her.  Melissa smiled but didn't say anything and only grabbed some chips and a beer and headed back down stairs. When they were both downstairs Melissa said, see I knew she wouldn't be happy seeing me wearing glasses all the time now. Ron said he was surprised at Alissa for being so against her wearing glasses. He again told her how nice he though she looks wearing glasses. In fact at least as good as you look without glasses. Seeing how good you look wearing glasses and since you're twins i'm sure Alissa would look just as nice as you look if she was wearing glasses. Melissa just laughed and said fat chance that will ever happen. She told Ron that when Alissa was helping her pick out her glasses Alissa would sometimes just try some on first to see how they looked on her because she knows how much we look alike. And it was her that first tried on the very glasses that she is wearing and she did look really cute wearing them. So your right Ron, I think she would look very good wearing glasses too. But not likely that will ever happen. Melissa told him how she gets complements on her glasses all the time and she really en joys it and it makes her feel good. 
Later that day after the game ended the two husbands went to get tickets for an upcoming college football game. They were hardly out the door and Alissa started questioning her sister about her glasses and why she would ever decide to wear glasses that she was told that she hardly even needed in the first place?  Melissa told her that she really did only plan on wearing them at work and driving. The first week she had her glasses she would come home from work and take off her glasses, but it seemed like with each passing day it was getting more and more difficult for her to watch TV without her glasses because the blur was bothering her and with her glasses she was able to see the TV perfectly and other things as well. So by the next week she was leaving her glasses on until she went to bed. It was just so much easier for her to wear them and she really didn't mind wearing her glasses because they were really very comfortable. More importantly her eye felt so much better wearing glasses because they weren't being strained like they were before. Melissa started to cry and she told Alissa that she was sorry that she didn't approve of her wearing glasses but she really needs them to see clearly. Melissa took her glasses off and tried to dry the tears before putting her glasses back on. Alissa hugged her and told her she understood and that if she didn't mind wearing glasses then she was okay with it as well. Melissa assured her that she was completely comfortable wearing glasses and would miss not wearing now. Over the next couple months nothing more was ever said about Melissa wearing glasses. Alissa seemed to accept her sister as a full time glasses wearer.
At work Melissa was doing a great job and was even promoted. She was now a trainer in her department and got a nice increase in pay. Her and Diane were even better friends by now and they would do bathroom breaks and lunch breaks at the same time. In a recent bathroom break Diane asked Melissa if she could try her glasses again. Melissa took her glasses off and handed them to her. Diane went to a window wearing Melissa's glasses and her own glasses in her hand. She was looking at things in the distance and after a couple minutes she took off Melissa's glasses and put her own glasses on. She handed Melissa her glasses  back and said "just what I thought" She told Melissa that there was no doubt  that her glasses needed to be changed because she could see so much better wearing Melissa's glasses. Remember shortly after Melissa got her glasses Diane tried Melissa's glasses and realized that Meliss's glasses were a little stronger than her own glasses. She thanked Melissa for letting her try her glasses again. She said that she was going to call for an appointment to get her eyes checked. Sure enough about 2 weeks later Diane came in wearing new glasses. Melissa noticed right away and told her how nice her new glasses looked. Melissa really did like her new glasses quite a bit. They really seemed to be a perfect fit and somehow really suited her style and look. Now it was Melissa that couldn't wait to try on her glasses. It was time they took a bathroom break. Okay so it wasn't time yet what's a half hour anyway when you want to try on someone's glasses? As soon as they got in their and door went closed Melissa instantly took off her glasses and asked Diane to see her glasses. Melissa looked at Diane's glasses from every possible angle and she really loved them and they looked just as cute on her as they did on Diane. Then as Melissa was looking around she noticed that she could see things a little bit clearer than with her own glasses unlike before when she tired on Diane's glasses ans they were too weak for her eyes now her glasses seemed perfect for her eyes. She asked Diane if she noticed any difference between her glasses and here new glasses but she said that she had just got them the night before and her eyes were still adjusting to them but she did say that she got an increase in her glasses from her previous glasses. They continued wearing each other's glasses while they took care of business. They only switched before heading back to work. As soon as Melissa put her own glasses back on she quickly felt like her glasses were a little bit weak for her eyes now. At lunch Melissa asked Diane if she would mind switching glasses again? Diane took her glasses and Melissa took her's off at the same time. Now being outside and being able to look at more things in the distance Melissa was sure that she was able to see things at a distance sharper and clearer wearing Diane's glasses. When they switched back Melissa was sure that things in the far distance was slightly blurry with her own glasses. Not terrible but their was no doubt that her eyesight had changed and gotten a bit worse. They told her when she got her glasses that she might need an increase in about 12 months time, but it had only been 9 months. She held off making an appointment but finally gave in at the 10 1/2 month point. 
She didn't call her sister this time because they told her she wouldn't be getting dilated so she would be able see fine to drive herself to and from. Everything was pretty much the same as last time except this time she was wearing glasses and before she wasn't. So the doctor first tested her with her glasses on she did pretty well and she knew she was able to read more of the letters this time than she could the firs time so her eyes must not have changed too much form before. The doctor then removed her glasses and tested her without her glasses and it seemed much more blurry to her then it was before. In the end her eyes hadn't changed all that much she was between needing an increase of -.25 and -.50 so the doctor decided to increase her glasses by -.50 in both eyes and her astigmatisms hadn't changed at all. She then went out and proceeded to pick out just the right frame for her new glasses. After trying on what seemed like several hundred, which it really wasn't, she decided on a cute little pair of semi-rimless with a little bit of a cat-eye shape. They told her that her her glasses would be ready in about 3 days. This time it really was 3 days when she got the call that her glasses were in. She decided to call her sister to see if she wanted to go along since it was at her favorite mall and she knew that Alissa could never turn a trip to the mall. No surprise when Melissa called Alissa to ask her to go along to the mall while sh e picks up her new glasses. Alissa said that she would be ready and waiting. By this time Alissa had pretty much accepted that her sister was a very happy girl wearing her glasses. On the way Alissa asked her why she was getting new glasses and Melissa  just told her that it's very normal when you start wearing glasses that your eyes may change a few times before they get stable. Alissa only asked her if she was sure it wasn't because she was wearing her glasses all the time? Melissa told her that they told her that even if she never wore her glasses at all her eyes would still change the same as they did. Alissa seemed fine with her answer and said okay then as long as wearing your glasses didn't ruin your eyesight and it was going to happen anyway. Then Alissa surprised her by telling her that she really does look very nice wearing glasses and that it just took a little time to get used to seeing her wearing them. Melissa was really happy that Alissa had come around so much. Melissa wondered to herself if that meant that she might actually consider wearing glasses at some point? She knew that Ron would love for Alissa to start wearing glasses just by his reactions to her when she got her glasses. As they went into Crown Optical to get Melissa's glasses they told her someone would be out to fit her and to have a seat. Melissa looked around while she was waiting and she was somewhat surprised to see her sister trying on frames. How interesting was that? Alissa had always seemed to have no interest in glasses at all and here she is trying on frames. She was even looking at herself in the mirror wearing several of them. About that time a young attractive woman came out with a tray with Melissa's glasses in it. She told Melissa that she was a little new at fitting glasses and had really only been practicing on herself with fitting different glasses. Melissa smiled and said hey we all have to learn some way. She did very well with fitting Melissa's glasses and when she finished they felt perfect on her. Melissa told her that she did a great job and she shouldn't tell anyone that she is new at it anymore. When Melissa was ready to get up she saw that Alissa was still trying on frames. When Melissa told her that she done and they could leave now Alissa told her that she found several very nice looking frames that would look really good on her. Melissa pointed out to her that she already has her new glasses and won't be needing another new pair for about a year or so. she reminded Alissa that since they are identical twins if they looked good on her they would look on both of them. As they left the store Alissa stopped Melissa and said that she wanted to take a look at her wearing her new glasses. Melissa stopped and gave her a silly smile being funny. Alissa told her that she really liked her new glasses. Melissa thanked her and they continued to walk and look in store windows which was a favorite of Alissa's. After a bit of looking and shopping they decided to go to the food court and get something to drink and rest up a bit. As they sat their drinking a cold drink Alissa again told Melissa how much she likes her glasses. But she said that she also liked the glasses she helped pick out for her. With that comment Melissa started thinking how much Ron, Alissa's husband liked those glasses on her when they were watching the football games. And it really was Alissa that picked out those glasses because she really wasn't able to see very well and just took her sister's opinion that they looked good. She opened her bag and pulled out her previous glasses case and handed it to Alissa and said "here I think you should be wearing these yourself. She told her how much Ron was always telling her how much he like my glasses and thought that you would look equally attractive if you were wearing glasses. Alissa seemed a bit stunned and said "did he really say that?"  Melissa told her he did so it seems you both really liked my glasses since you picked them out for me and he liked how I looked wearing them and since we are identical , in looks anyway, they have to look every bit as nice on you. She took the case opened it and took out the glasses. She looked at them carefully and said "they really do look nice don't they?" She opened them slowly and slid them on her face. She asked how they looked and I told her that she looked amazing. She looked around and could tell that she was trying to focus her eyes. Melissa asked her if she could see okay and Alissa said that she could see pretty good with them  but things in the distance were a bit blurry. Melissa told her that the blur would slowly go away and she would soon be able to see perfectly wearing them. Melissa couldn't believe that her sister was actually wearing glasses now. After a while they got up and started shopping again. Alissa's eyes seemed to be adjusting to her glasses quite well. She seemed to be able to see things in store windows pretty well. Driving Alisa home I noticed that she was sliding her glasses, I mean my old glasses, down her nose several times. I'm sure it feels strange for her to be wearing glasses for the first time. But as she got of my car and went in she was still wearing her glasses. I'm sure that Ron was a very happy man seeing her wearing glasses which I know he wanted. Even better since they were my glasses which I know he really liked. I'm sure Alissa had some wonderful sex that night.
The next day Melissa called her sister to see how she was doing with her glasses. She said that I was right about Ron. He insisted i keep the glasses on in bed even. Melissa suggested that they go for a drive and maybe stop at a winery since it was a beautiful weekend. That would help Alissa get used to wearing glasses and help her eyes adjust to them as well. 
It's been a year now since Melissa gave Alissa her previous glasses. Melissa went in for an eye exam and was a bit disappointed that their was no change needed in he glasses. She was looking forward to getting an increase and new glasses. But Diane had recently found out about an on line glasses site called Zenni Optical and she ordered herself several new pairs of glasses including some really nice prescription sunglasses. She even cheated a bit and added a little extra to her actual prescription. I tried her new glasses and even with the added on I was able see just fine wearing her glasses so i may do the same thing as well. My eyes seem to really like that extra bump I got when I did need an increase. It will just be my little secret. Alissa adjusted to her glasses really quickly. It makes me wonder if she maybe didn't need glasses all along. After all we are identical twins so why wouldn't our eyes maybe be the same? All i know is that she wears her glasses all the time and she claims that she can't see very well without them. She was recently hired to do of all things a photoshoot for an eyeglass frame company called Oakley and they had wear a number of frames for the shoot. When it was finished they paid her $5,000.00 for the shoot and gave her 6 pairs of glasses of her choice including her prescription. She didn't get her eyes examined and just had them use the same prescription as the glasses I gave her. 

The End

https://vision-and-spex.com/the-twins-part-2-t1083.html