---
title: The moped license.
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-09-28'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: In a small town, Donavan's life changes when a law requires him to wear glasses and get a moped license.
---
This story is fantasy. One true thing is ages 15 and up are permitted to ride a moped or motorized bikes on non interstate roads without benefit of a license or insurance.
Madison Indiana is a small town in the Southern part of the state located on the Ohio River. Madison is the seat of Jefferson county Indiana. The Louisville Kentucky TV stations when reporting severe weather have to make sure and tell the difference as Louisville is also in a county called Jefferson. Madison is most famous for both owing a hydroplane and staging races for them over July 4th.
Donavan started carrying both the Louisville Courier Journal Morning and Louisville Times afternoon papers as soon as he turned 14 in 1980 saving his money up to buy a moped.
Donavan was turning 15 just as the 79-80 school year ended and was surprised by his parents giving him a motorized bicycle that was right at highest power allowed by law for not having insurance or a license. Donovan's parents had said they were not giving him one but changed their mind when he despite getting up at 4am to deliver papers maintained a 4.0 GPA. Donavan enjoyed his new "ride" but was concerned with a new law stating July 1st.
The Jefferson county commissioners after some these of type bikes had been in some accidents wisely passed a law requiring operators to have a moped license. A written test was required pertaining to moped type bikes and that was no problem as Donavan was great at tests. A vision test was also required using the same 20/40 requirement that the DMV used. The manager of the county BMV liked this law and wanted to offer their services in doing the vision screening but was overruled by the state. The compromise was a statement form an Optometrist either saying no glasses needed or glasses needed would suffice. The county did in acquire a standard Snellen chart and set it up in a spare room in the courthouse at the 20ft distance.  Donavan did wear -2.50 and -2.75 glasses buy only when he had to. Donovan if he could sat at the front of his classes and when going to movies opted for the front row. Donovan who almost always wears polo shirts to keep his glasses  on them when not wearing them.  Donovan only took his glasses on his paper routes when he had a new start and just put them on long enough to see the house #s.
Donovan tried to get a statement from his Optometrist saying he didn't need his glasses on his moped but the Dr. refused. The Optometrist had almost since the time Donavan starting wearing glasses suggested full time wear. Donavan thought wearing glasses all the time would make him a nerd and back then that was not cool. This was odd because in Donovan's group of friends of about 10 half of them wore glasses and he was the only one who did not wear them full time.
Donovan finally with only a couple of days before the July 1st deadline goes and gets his moped license. Donovan tried to pass the vision screening without his glasses but even with squinting he could not and got the restriction. Donovan's parents then sit him down and say your want to get your drivers license as soon as you can right? Donovan as is typical back then says yes I do. Donovan has already started saving money towards a car because of getting the moped as a birthday present.
Donovan does start wearing glasses all day in school and gradually more at home until around Thanksgiving of that year when he starts wearing them all the time. Donovan after turning 16 and getting his license and a car switches from carrying papers to working in a rental shop part time and after school and weekends. Donovan finishes high school 2nd in class and might have been 1st if not for a hotly debated teachers curve grading system. Donovan gets a full ride scholarship to nearby Hanover University graduating in only 3 years all while working for the rental place and some in fast food. Donovan did try contacts in college but had so much getting them in he gave up.
Donovan who never married or had kids after college started work in the banking industry working his way up to where he is today a vice president of one of the major banks in Madison. Donovan after seeing good results from one of his high school friends having Lasik thought about it for himself. Donovan decided in 2000 to wait 5 years to see what happened with his friends procedure and was glad he did. After 3 years the friend was back in glasses part time and after 4 years full time.
Donovan has also served 2 terms as an elected Jefferson County commissioner and is currently running for a 3rd. 3 or 4 years ago the idea of repealing the moped license law came up and did pass. Donovan spoke passionately against the repeal. Donavan said  "I speak from experience" as he knew some kids that age only wore their glasses when they had to and did not know the rules of the road. Donavan was the only no vote. Every year with Donavan introduces a bill to bring the requirement back but it has always been voted down despite support from both the Madison city police and the Jefferson County sheriffs office.

https://vision-and-spex.com/the-moped-license-t1454.html