---
title: The Skeet Shooter
author: soindiana88
date: '2020-03-20'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

Now 16 year old  Perry who will turn 17 this summer comes from a family who though his Dad or Mom are interested in hunting enjoy target and skeet shooting. The skeet shooting range has a contest divided by age groups every year and the youngest a kid can be is in their 13th year. Kids past their 12th birthday can compete in the 13-14 age group. 
Perry was only a few days past his 12th birthday the first time he was able to enter the contest. One of the biggest upsets in the long history of the contest happened when Perry beat all the 13 and 14 year olds. Perry repeated the next year and pulled the biggest upset winning overall against all age groups.
Perry at age 14 repeated both his age and overall championships. Note due to when his birthday and the contest fell Perry spent 3 years in the 13-14 age groups.
Perry by the next year at age 15 was the heavy favorite to take not only his age group but the overall as well. As usual the contest took place in the summer while school was out and to everyones surprise Perry has a terrible time only hitting a few targets. Nobody can figure out why. Was the pressure getting to Perry? Perry had an eye exam before starting school showing excellent vision so his parents didn't think that was a problem. Perry had always done well in school and with lessons being taught on laptops a black or white board was seldom if ever used. Finally Perry's poor performace was chalked up to pressure.
Later that summer before school starts Perry rides with his best friend's Mom to pick up books and his laptop for the upcoming school year. Perry has privately started to wonder if the problem is his vision got worse asks his friend while in a classroom if he can see what is written on the board and he can. Perry then goes to a voluntary eye screening that a teacher is giving since the school had gotten an old machine from the Bureau of Motor Vehicles. Perry is told he only read the 20/50 lines with each eye so he goes home and requests his parents make an appointment with an Optometrist which they do.
Perry gets his appointment with the Optometrist who is surprised to see him a year earlier then normal. The Dr. usually says every 2 years for patients with good vision but notes she is surprised not seeing Perry's name in the skeet shooting results in the newspaper. Perry goes thru the exams done with retinal imaging and not dialation  and is prescribed glasses of -1.50 for both eyes. With no Astigmatism Perry is able to get his glasses the same day which is on a Saturday morning. Perry's Mom takes him home and his Dad says he's going out to the skeet club and Perry asks to go with him and does. Perry now shooting with glasses is back to his old self seldom missing the targets.
Perry was told at his eye appointment to wear his glasses for distance as needed finds he's more comfortable reading without them which concerns his Mom enough to call and request a followup appointment with the Optometrist who calls her back when she sees the concern and says it's not unusual, noting as long as he doesn't get headaches it is no problem. Perry goes thru his sophomore year of high school wearing his glasses nearly full time mainly taking them off for reading and up close. Perry does take some good natured ribbing from his best friend about needing glasses but as he found out later there was a reason for this.
As last school year ended Perry once again wins the his age (16-17) and overall skeet championships. During that summer Perry has an eye exam and his prescription only jumps by -.25 in each eye to -1.75 still with no Astigmatism. 
Perry and his best friend who share the same birthday and year both at age 16 decide to go ahead and get their drivers learner permits. Perry takes the written test on the machine first as usual not wearing his glasses for up close passing easily missing only one. Perry is then asked if he wants to try the vision screening without glasses and says the Dr. said he wouldn't pass without them and easily passes with them. The same day Perry's best friend at the DMV passes the written exam missing none but is secretly worried. Unknown to anybody the friend had tried on his younger bothers spare pair of glasses when home alone and realized he could see very well with them on. Perry's friend as he secretly expected he could fails the vision screening though it's close. The friend then has to get glasses with a prescription of -1.25R and 1.75L to go to the BMV and get his permit.
Unlike Perry his friend only wears his glasses when driving and if he has to see something far away. As their junior year goes on both get their drivers licenses as soon as they can of course both restricted to corrective lenses. The friend wants contacts but the same Optometrist Perry goes to has a policy that a patient must wear glasses for a year before getting contacts. Perry was looking forward to the skeet shooting contest but now with the virus shutting everything down including school wonders if it will take place. Perry had even to his friend into skeet shooting despite the fact at age 16 he had never fired a gun before. The friend the first time shootng didn't have his glasses with him and did terrible. The next few times with his glasses the friend did better then average for a "newbie".
Note this story is fantasy but of course the virus is very real.

https://vision-and-spex.com/the-skeet-shooter-t1651.html
