---
title: The gas station robbery.
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-10-01'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: In 1975, Brad's decision to delay taking driver's ed raises questions until a mysterious encounter at the gas station.
---
Brad Ainge of Bedford Indiana was turning 14 in 1973 and it seemed all he talked about was taking drivers education the second semester of his sophomore year. Brad's 16th birthday was in April of that school year and as long as he passed both the in car and classroom part of the courses he would be eligible to take his drivers license test as soon as school was out. Brad during the summer after turning 14 went to stay on his Uncle's farm in Iowa where of course the main crop was corn. The Uncle taught Brad to drive all manner of farm equipment and he was good at it and made good money because his Uncle ran a very successful farm. Brad also learned to drive an old Chevy truck with a 3 speed manual transmission shifted on the column. That transmission is said to be the hardest manual to drive. Brad said he was saving up money for a car when old enough.
Brad who was 15 and at the start of his sophomore year and could have taken drivers ed. that semester elected not to. The biggest reason was the semester ended in January and Brad could not get his license until late May when he reached 16 years and 1 month which then as now is the lowest age teenager can get a drivers license providing they pass both the in car and classroom part of the course. In 1975  A's or B's in both parts of the course meant only a written test and a vision screening and no in car test.
Brad when picking his classes for the second semester said he was going to wait until the summer to take drivers ed. Brad though he knew the basics of driving from his time on the farm had no experience in traffic. The summer session allowed more behind the wheel time and would only delay getting his license until August. Brad's parents were ok with this thinking more behind the wheel time was a good idea. The surprise comes when Brad elects not to go to summer school even just for drivers ed. Brad who had already made a B on the classroom portion of the course says he will take it the first semester of his junior year. Brad's parents are confused and even a little angry about this. Brad if he needed a ride somewhere had to rely on his parents most of the time.
Brad Uncle had sold the farm and retired by the summer after his sophomore year so he took a part time job at a service station pumping gas. Pumping gas what is that you younger folks say? Service or filling stations as they were called in 1975 were a lot different from the places we buy gas today. Some may have offered the self service option of pumping your own gas to save a few cents a gallon but most had attendants who pumped your gas for you! The attendant would clean your windshield and check the oil if so desired. The stations would offer minor service such as patching a tire, an oil change or some did tune ups and sometimes major work if they had an experienced mechanic on duty.
Brad while his main duty was pumping gas learned to repair tires, install batteries and when the owner of the station suffering from arthritis was doing an oil change would have him do the lube. Cars of that era and before often had lube points on the suspension that required hand pumping a grease gun until grease came out the other side. The owner's arthritis made it painful for him to do this so Brad gladly helped. 
All went well with the job but for reasons known only to Brad he did not sign up for drivers ed. the first semester of his junior year. Brad's parents or his boss could not understand as times were different back then because to a teenager getting your drivers license was a rite of passage towards adulthood. Brad continued working after school and on Saturdays his junior year.
Brad was under a car pumping grease when a teenager came inside the station so the owner went to help him. The teenager who they later found out was 17 wanted change for the cigarette machine. There was no age requirements for buying cigarettes back then and they were sold in vending machines. The owner gave the kid his change and the young man pulled a gun on him and got away with about $60. Both Brad and the owner had been very good about putting money in safe so the $60 was all he got. Brad under a car on a rack did notice a getaway car but could not make out the license#. The police came and took a report. Both Brad and the owner came to the station and looked at mugshots and picked out the same teenager who Brad knew from school. The reason the teenager mugshot is in the book is he had been picked up for investigation of another robbery where it was found out he was not involved. While Brad was inside the station the same person came in and got change for cigarettes getting them and leaving without incident the week before. The police reasoned Brad could give them a name so the teenager didn't try to rob the station when he was the person on duty. Brad had actually briefly dated his younger Sister and knew where he lived so he was caught and tried and convicted as an adult getting 7 years in prison.
Shortly after the robbery while Brad was in school the owner was under a car when another car parked in the same spot the teenager had. The man in his 40's who had just this year started to have to wear glasses for driving could make out the license# without his glasses. The man put his glasses and noticed the # was really clear.. The car that came in only wanted directions and a quart of oil. Before Brad got to work after school the owner conducted some experiments. The owner parked his car farther and farther away and with his glasses could see the license # at the end of the lot. When Brad came in the owner with his car still parked at the far end of the lot with the license plate facing them (Indiana then as now does not have front license plates) had Brad put on his glasses telling him to look thru the top part and tell me if you can see the license#. Brad said yes he could and the owner asked him if needing glasses is why you are not taking drivers ed.? Brad told the owner yes but he had been afraid to tell his  parents because they said he read too much and he was going to wait until he was 18 and could get his eyes checked without parental consent. Brad was 16 at the time as this and the robbery happened in November of his junior year.
The station owner then called Brad's Mom who was at first scared something had happened to him at work but that was not the case. The owner explained about Brad's vision but said this didn't come from me. Brad did not want me to tell you anything Brad's parents decided to casually ask him when was the last time the school had a vision screening. When Brad said at the start of 8th grade his Mom and Dad said we are going to make an Optometrist appointment for you. Brad protested saying he had no trouble seeing the board at school but of course with a last name starting with A he was in the front most of the time. 
Brad still protesting has his appointment and as his parents and boss expected was prescribed glasses which would come in a week. Brad does not go to work until noon on Saturday so he is taken to pick up his glasses at 9:00am when the optical store opens. Brad's Dad has another surprise for him. The BMV is open a half day on Saturdays and while waiting for the store to open pulls out a drivers manual and says study it. Brad who has a great memory reads it almost from cover to cover in about a half your. Brad's Dad says when we get done here we are going to the BMV. Brad takes the written test not missing a question. Brad is then called for the vision test and tries and fails without his new glasses. Brad then puts his glasses on and easily passes the screening with them. Brad was told he had about 20/60R and 20/70L but with glasses he would be close to 20/15 in both eyes so passing a 20/40 test was no problem. Brad is actually relieved the truth has come out. His Dad comes out of the BMV and gets in the passenger seat and asks Brad if he remembered driving from the farm. When Brad said yes his Dad said take me home. Brad does almost perfect driving home only stopping slightly too for forward at a traffic light. Brad almost from first getting glasses is amazed at how well he can see again and as soon as the normal headaches subside starts wearing them all the time.
Brad who finally admitted the reason for putting off drivers ed. was he knew his vision was changing does takes drivers ed. the second semester of his junior year completing the course despite getting his license before it ended. The reason for completing drivers ed. was a discount on insurance in addition to one for being a good student.
Brad goes to college graduating in 3 and a half years and marries his high school sweetheart in 1983. Brad's Wife is from a family where almost nobody wears glasses until the need for readers sets in. In 1986 the couple have their only child a Son who seems to get his vision from his Mom's side of the family. In fact today the Son who is married with 8 year old Daughter has such good distance vision he has trouble seeing up close and was told he could use cheaters as reading glasses are sometime called. Brad's Grandchild so far does not need glasses but at her last eye exam her parents were told she was showing signs of becoming Hyperopic but may outgrow it as some kids do.
Brad after college bought the station where he had worked in high school and converted it to an instant oil change. Brad today owns 10 instant oil changes in Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio. The ironic thing is the teenager that robbed the station after doing his time in prison earning a college degree is now business manager for Brad's oil change places. With Brad's support the man petitioned to have his criminal record expunged. The owner of the station shortly before passing away also supported the petition and it was granted. The mans only brush with the law since getting out of prison was a parking ticket in Nashville Indiana. The man paid it anyway despite the fact his car was not there. The man would not have known had he not got a notice in the mail. It was cheaper to pay the ticket then fight it.

https://vision-and-spex.com/the-gas-station-robbery-t1462.html