---
title: The mall walk
author: soindiana88
date: '2020-02-29'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: Calvin's world is turned upside down when a routine eye exam reveals he needs glasses before getting his driver's license.
---
In the summer of 88 15 year old sophomore to be Calvin was walking thru a mall in Indianapolis that closed in sometime later with his newly custodial Dad. The divorce had always been on friendly terms and Calvin's Mom originally has custody but voluntary let his Dad take custody of their only child when she transferred to St. Louis for her job. Calvin did not want to leave his friends in Indianapolis and would visit his Mom whenever he could. Mom, Dad and Calvin were happy with the arrangement. Calvin's Dad after the two had did some shopping for school clothes noticed a free eye testing machine at a central Indiana optical chain and at age 43 was starting to have trouble up close. Calvin had the machine set to up close and showed he could use either reading glasses or bifocals  Calvin's Dad. at the urging of an employee has him tested first on the machine which is still set for up close and he passes with flying colors. Calvin is relieved because what his Dad didn't know is when his Mom had custody last year at a routine eye exam was showing signs of Myopia and if it progressed as it often does in teenagers he will need glasses which he doesn't want in 1 to 2 years.
Calvin's relief doesn't last long as the employee turns the machine to distance and again Dad goes first and his distance vision is still 20/20 in both eyes. Calvin goes next and is barely 20/40R and 20/50L. Calvin is asked his age and if he plans on taking Drivers Education to which he says yes during the second semester because with turning 16 at the end of April with passing both the in car and classroom can get his license right after school is out for the year. 
Appointments are made for both Calvin and his Dad the next day as it's too late to do exams and get glasses the same day. Calvin's Grandfather on his Mom's has maintained a good relationship with his former son in law since the divorce volunteers to drive the 2 to their appointments due to Dad possibly having his eyes dilated a fact which never having a full eye exam he had not even  thought about. Both men go for their exams with Calvin protesting he passed the part the BMV tests on which he didn't. Dad has Presbyopia and is prescribed bifocals due to mild Astigmatism. Calvin still protesting goes next and by chance the Optometrist doing the exam is the same one he had last year at a different practice. The Dr. remembers Calvin and confirms what the employee said that he is very borderline on passing the BMV exam. Calvin is prescribed glasses with a prescription of -1.25R and 1.50L which he still insists he doesn't need.
Calvin and his Dad get their glasses the same day and Grandpa drives them home. Dad finds it much more comfortable reading though he has a little trouble adjusting to lined bifocals which were the norm at the time. Calvin from the time he takes his glasses off leaving the store in spite of being advised full time wear when his headaches stop does not wear his until he gets the law laid down to him on Thanksgiving weekend. Mom has come back to Indy for a visit with her family and Calvin and his Dad are invited to dinner by the family who obviously has no hard feelings. Mom noticing her ex husband now has reading glasses knowing about possibly developing Myopia asks if Calvin's eyes have been checked. Calvin on an unseasonably warm day decides to deep fry a turkey (he's actually a good cook) goes outside to tend to that chore so his Mom and Dad talk about Calvin who has literally never worn glasses since leaving the optical store and come up with a solution. Calvin  is afraid wearing glasses will make his vision worse due to his best friend  being forced to wear a very mild prescription from age 8 and is now helpless without them at 14. The solution Calvin's Mom and Dad come up with is he must start wearing glasses full time by January 1st or he will not be allowed to take drivers ed. Both of Calvin's parents are easy going and usually don't force him to do something like that but since driving is a big responsibility stand firm. Calvin protests but to no avail. Calvin does start wearing his glasses to school and most of the time around the house so when January comes around he is allowed to sign up for drivers ed. Calvin tries the BMV exam without glasses and fails so his drivers ed. only permit has restriction A on it the code for corrective lenses at that time in Indiana.
Calvin's last name is Allen so with most classes he sits towards the front notices something that stand out to him in his classroom drivers ed. class. The teacher Mr. Zoeller hated being in the back of the class does opposite of what most teachers due putting the students in reverse order. Calvin notices that if he takes his glasses off and closed\s his right eye he can not see the board and can barely see it with his right eye without correction. Calvin thinks well maybe he really needs glasses after all. Calvin a solid B student who sometimes makes the honor roll passes both the classroom and in car portion of drivers ed. and when he goes for his license he only has to take the written and vision tests. Calvin aces the written test missing none and doesn't even try the vision screening without glasses and walks out with his license. Now in Indiana even on a renewal you get a piece of paper that serves the purpose until you licenses with picture is mailed to you. 
Calvin was surprised with a nice used car on his 16th birthday and as soon as he got his license insurance was put on it so he took his first solo drive about 10 minutes after getting home with his license. Calving that summer went for his regular eye exam and his prescription only increased by -.25 in each eye.. Calvin during his senior year does try contacts but quickly decides there not for him. By his senior year his glasses prescription has risen to -2.00R and -2.25L where it remained until 1999 when he had Lasik Calvin who did not go to college instead taking vocational education related to cooking went to work in a high end eatery where he works to this day marrying one of the waitresses but never having kids. The Lasik was great at first with bot+h eyes being 20/15 but that only lasted about 4 years. Lasik was only a few years in by the time Calvin had it and not much was known and frankly he was one of the unlucky ones as most last 8 to 10 years. Calvin's had to start wearing glasses with a prescription of -1.00R and -1.50L where it remains to this day with a progressive add of +1.25 starting at age 45. By now Calvin's grandparents have passed away but after his Mom got transferred back to Indianapolis her and his Dad remarried and are happy, The reason Calvin could afford Lasik which is usually not covered by insurance was his maternal Grandmother who passed away about 2 years after Lasik come into being left him money saying while she couldn't force him to have it she hoped hi would.

https://vision-and-spex.com/the-mall-walk-t1635.html