---
title: "Tyler's Dad has an unusual request."
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-04-14'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: When Tyler's father offers a car as an incentive for him to try contacts, Tyler's life takes a surprising turn.
---
Tyler now 27 was first prescribed glasses for Myopia at age 9.At first Tyler did not think he needed glasses as he was having no trouble seeing the board at school. Within 2 years Tyler's Myopia had progressed to the point he needed them to see the board at school. At an eye exam after turning 12 Tyler's single Dad who had custody and hated the way he looked in glasses suggested contacts. What's unusual about a parent suggesting contacts is it's usually the kid or teenager wanting contacts and the parents saying no or your too young. The Dr. who was retiring before Tyler's next checkup asked to speak to him in private. The Dr. asked Tyler if he wanted contacts explaining some of the care involved. When Tyler said no the Dr. then told his Dad I won't fit contacts for a kid who doesn't want them and wears their glasses as prescribed which he did. In Tyler's eye exams from age 13 to 15 he again turned down contacts. When Tyler turned 16 his Dad offered him an incentive for contacts he couldn't refuse. Tyler's Dad offered to buy him a car which their neighbors would be selling in 3 months to settle an estate. Unknown to Tyler his Dad had already put a deposit on the car and he was going to get it either way. The deal was and Tyler agreed to try contacts for 6 months if he was a good fit for them which he was. Tyler got his contacts and though he could stand wearing them and was actually good at cleaning and other things hated them. Tyler had become so used to wearing glasses he constantly tried to push them up on his nose while not wearing them. Tyler got his license and his car and the only thing he liked about wearing contacts was being able to wear sunglasses. Tyler did keep wearing contacts for a year turning 17. At age 17 Tyler got an minor eye infection unrelated to contacts and was told not to wear them for a month. Tyler had gotten used to wearing contacts and didn't like this news but followed the Doctor's instructions. While wearing his glasses Tyler remembered how easy it was not have to worry about the cleaning contacts and kept wearing glasses after the month was up. Tyler was due for an eye exam and when in the Dr. the receptionist said contact exam right? Tyler's Dad started to say yes when he interrupted him and said no glasses only. Tyler's Dad looked puzzled. Tyler reminded his Dad he had kept his end of the bargain and he should keep his. Both Tyler and his Dad kept their ends of the bargain. Tyler explained to his Dad that he was tired of messing with contacts. Tyler went to a 2 year college and after graduating took a job in his chosen field all the time wearing and updating glasses only no contacts. As for the car Tyler used it all thru college and when he could afford it traded it on a newer one. Today Tyler is married with a 3 year old girl still happily wearing glasses as is his wife who like him tried contacts and didn't like them. Tyler's wife wears Hyperopic glasses with a +7 R and +6.50 L. Funny that at his last eye exam Tyler was prescribed -7 R and -6.50 L so possibly opposites attract.

https://vision-and-spex.com/tyler-s-dad-has-an-unusual-request-t1261.html