---
title: Wearing glasses while driving a racecar.
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-05-20'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: Jordan, a 15-year-old stock car racer, defies his father's wishes and races without his glasses, but faces consequences.
---
15 year old Jordan comes from a family who loves stock car racing. Jordan's Dad raced several divisions until a heart procedure caused him to have to go on a blood thinner for life. On a blood thinner you can't take risks where you can get cut so the Dad's driving days were over. Jordan's Dad was all in with him driving a racecar at 15 which is the youngest age allowed in the local tracks Front Wheel Division. Jordan like many his age at 13 failed a vision screening at school and had to get glasses which he wore only to see the board in school and attending sporting events including the races. Jordan turned 15 in April and was surprised with a racecar to race at the local track. Jordan decided he would not wear his glasses while racing and his Dad was ok with this saying the wearer knows how well you see without them. At his eye exam just before starting racing Jordan's prescription was -2 and -2.25 and he was still planning on wearing his glasses as before even though most with that strength would wear them all the time. Jordan who had learned how to drive a manual transmission on his Uncle's farm when he was 13 did ok as he was gaining experience getting better and better each time out. The car Jordan's Dad bought had been the track champs car the year before only being sold since the driver was changing divisions. Jordan's vision without glasses was not good enough to see the scoreboard where the restart lineups were posted and as a result he was sent to the tail several times. Being sent to the tail while learning was actually a good thing but as he got better the problems started. Jordan after getting better was running second in the years big race with some lapped cars between him and the leader with only 3 laps to go there was a restart. Jordan not being able to see where he should lineup was again sent to the tail of the line. On top of that during the red flag the leader had a flat tire and had to go to the pits losing his position on the restart. Jordan was now leading with the previous leader (tire changed) right on his bumper for the restart. The restart happened and the other car on the lead lap passed Jordan for the win and he finished second. The problem was if Jordan had restarted in his regular position the winner would not have got to him in 3 laps. Jordan's Dad was understandably mad saying if you had your glasses you would have won this big money race. Jordan's Dad told him when he gets his learners permit and later his drivers license you will be restricted to glasses anyway so why not wear them. The next week Jordan raced wearing his glasses and due to restarting where he should won the feature. Jordan after that did start wearing his glasses all the time. All this happened 2 years ago and Jordan finished 2nd in the points last year. This year with a new car Jordan is leading the point standings though it's still early in the season. Jordan did get his drivers license restricted as soon as he could. Jordan's examiner was quite impressed with his driving including when a car pulled out in front of him and he made a great evasive move to miss a sure wreck which he learned how to do on the race track. 

https://vision-and-spex.com/wearing-glasses-while-driving-a-racecar-t1303.html