---
title: "What she didn't know?"
author: soundmanpt
date: '2017-12-26'
categories:
  - soundmanpt
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: In a small Midwest town, football star Tom lives a double life of dating girls with glasses, until he meets Vanessa.
---
Hi my names Tom I live in city in the Midwest. I grew up here and I graduated from high school last year. In high school I was pretty popular and had lots of friends. I played a number of sports but football was my best sport and I even got a scholarship to a college because of my football ability. It was late spring and my freshman year of college was behind me. The college I go to isn't far from my home so I was able to go home quite often during the school year. Now I was home for the summer until fall practice starts up. Anyway i'm not exactly sure when I first got interested in girls that wore glasses. I know it was even before I started dating that I took notice of any girl on TV that wore glasses. So when I reached my dating age I was determined to date as many girls as possible that wore glasses. But at the same time I had to be careful about it because I didn't want anyone to notice that I seemed to only date girls with glasses. Again it really helped being a football player and that our team went to the state finals before losing. So getting dates wasn't hard at all. It really helped that since wearing glasses had become popular with many of the girls at my school their was a good number of glasses wearers to choose from. I was good at being able to tell if a girl's glasses had prescription lenses or not. I didn't really want to date a girl wearing fake glasses. And I made a point to date a non glasses wearer so no one would notice how how many wore glasses. This was working perfect and none of my friends ever questioned me about dating girls with glasses. It helped that most of the girls I dated were actually pretty cute and at least somewhat popular as well. In my last year of high school I noticed several new cheerleaders. Of course they came out to cheer at our games. After one of our games I went over and said hi to the girls I already knew on the squad. They introduced me to the 3 new girls. I couldn't help but notice how attractive one of the new girls was. Long dark hair and beautiful green eyes. What a combination. Then I wondered if by some chance she might also be a glasses wearer. Of course cheerleading she wouldn't be wearing glasses anyway. I know that because a couple of them were in classes I was in and they were wearing glasses during class. I assume to see the board? But not for cheerleading. When they introduced me to the new girls I remembered that one was Julie and one was Diane and the one i was most interested in was Vanessa. Over the next days I was trying hard to find what classes  she was in. I was able to find out 3 classes that she took. So I manged to make excuses to get out of class just so I could peek into these classes to see if Vanessa might be wearing glasses. In 2 of the classes she was sitting near the center of the room and no sign of glasses and the 3rd one she was in the back of the classroom and still no glasses. So I was a bit disappointed that she didn't wear glasses but still she was so pretty that I couldn't stop thinking about her even though she didn't wear glasses. The next days I made a point to walk by where she was and I was slowly getting to know her a little more each day. There was school dance coming up and i asked her to it. She accepted and we had a great time. She wasn't only very pretty but she was also very friendly and easy to talk to and get to know. I hate to admit this but something I was very bad at for some reason was asking the same girl more than once. Looking back I really regret that because a number of those girls were not only cute but  very sweet as well. They really deserved better from me. I'm sure some of them must have wondered what was wrong with them that I would tell them that I would call and never did. That was so wrong of me. Anyway with Vanessa it was different I actually did call her back and we did go out again and again. We dated until I graduated and even into the late spring. One Sunday after noon I had picked up Vanessa and we went for a nice drive. We decided to stop at a fast food drive thru for something to drink. While we were parking enjoying our drinks a car pulled up along side of my car but on Vanessa's side. I looked over and it was Vanessa's best friend Julie one of the other cheerleaders that was new to the squad. I noticed when she pulled up that she was wearing glasses. I had seen Julie quite often in the halls at school but I had never once seen her wearing glasses. i was quite surprised. But as soon as she put her car in park she quickly took her glasses off and put them on top of her head. We talked a bit but mostly it was Vanessa and Julie catching up on things since they hadn't talked with each other for several hours. Julie never did order anything and after a bit she put her glasses on and said bye and pulled away. As soon as she did I commented to Vanessa that I didn't know Julie wore glasses. Vanessa started laughing and said 'she so silly doesn't she look cute wearing glasses'? I of course agreed since I have a thing for girls wearing glasses and the cuter they are the better and Julie didn't take a back seat to anyone with her good looks and glasses didn't make her look any less attractive. Vanessa said knowing how much she hates to be seen wearing her glasses that she didn't take them off before she pulled up. Vanessa said that she has told her many times how cute she looks wearing her glasses but she refuses to wear them even at times when she needs them. She said that she only wears them for driving and that is because she has to. Vanessa told me that when Julie went for her learners permit about a year ago she failed the vision test and was told that if she wanted to drive she would need to wear glasses. So she wanted to drive bad enough that she went and got her eyes examined and got her glasses. She passed her test wearing glasses and she said that would be the only tie she would be seen wearing glasses and that she has been true to her word. A few more weeks have gone by and Vanessa and I are still going strong. i really liked that girl. We seemed to have a lot in common and got along great. My only regret was that she had perfect vision and based on how well she was able to see things there didn't seem any chance of her ever needing glasses until she was maybe old enough to need readers. in fact the only time she ever had anything to say about glasses was when she was telling me about hoe cute she thought Julie looked wearing glasses. Otherwise there was never any mention of glasses from her or me. Of course I never wanted her to find out about my little glasses fetish. Then it happened, I had just picked Vanessa up for our date for dinner and a movie. As we driving there i noticed that Vanessa was unusally quiet. This wasn't like her at all. Finally i asked her if everything was all right? She said it was but still i could tell it wasn't. I said are you upset at me for some reason and she smiled at me and said "no not at all". Finally as we pulled into a parking space to go in for dinner she said "wait I need to ask you something"? I said "you know you can ask me anything" with that she reached in her bag and pulled out a glasses case. She opened and took out a pair of glasses. I can't tell you how excited i was but let me just say I was glad it was dark or she would have seen how happy I was by the bulge in my pants. She slowly put the glasses on as she asked me how i would feel about her wearing glasses from now on? I told her I didn't have any objection that if she needed to wear glasses it was perfectly fine with me. She said "well that's the thing, I don't really need to wear glasses I can see perfectly fine without them, but I just want to wear them because I like how they feel and I like how I look wearing them". She went on to tell me that when Julie got her glasses Julie wasn't happy at all with having glasses. So she asked Julie if she could try her glasses on hoping that would encourage Julie a bit into wearing her glasses. When she put them on and looked in the mirror she really liked how she looked wearing glasses. Vanessa said that she had never before tried on on anyone's glasses before. Anyway she really liked how they felt and she could see okay wearing them. Julie even remarked that Vanessa looked really good wearing glasses. So the next time the girls were out Julie drove so she had her glasses on. When they got where they were going Julie started to put her glasses in their case and Vanessa asked her if she could wear her glasses. Julie handed her her glasses and Vanessa put them on and they headed off to do some shopping. Vanessa said she wore Julies glasses the whole evening until they were back at Julie's car when Vanessa gave Julie her glasses back so she could drive home. Vanessa said that Julie asked her how she liked wearing glasses? Vanessa told her that after the first few minutes her eyes adjusted and she was able to see everything perfectly she hardly knew that she was wearing glasses because they were that comfortable to wear. She told Julie that she wouldn't mind at all having to wear glasses. Vanessa said that at first her main reason for wearing Julie's glasses was to try and encourage her into wearing her glasses more. Vanessa said that she continued to borrow Julie's glasses every chance she got only how she was actually looking forward to wearing them and not for Julie's sake anymore. Anyway it was past a year since Julie had got her glasses and she got a reminder note that it was time to get her eyes examined. Julie had no intention of getting her eyes examined but she left the reminder note on table and her mother saw it and insisted that she get her eyes checked. As it turned out it was a good thing she went because over the year her eyesight had gotten worse. Julie needed stronger glasses and she was told that she now needed to start wearing her glasses all the time. Julie was devastated that she was now going to be wearing glasses all the time. Vanessa said she tried her best to console her friend but it didn't seem to help. Vanessa went to her house to talk to her and try and cheer up. When Vanessa got their Julie was wearing her new glasses and like her previous glasses she looked really cute wearing them and Vanessa kept telling her that. Julie broke into tears as she couldn't stop thinking about having to wear her glasses all the time. Vanessa told her how much she liked her new glasses and asked Julie if she could try them on? Julie handed Vanessa her glasses and Vanessa had to first wipe the tears off of them. Vanessa put them on and as soon as she did she could tell that Julie's new glasses were quite a bit stronger than her old ones. But Vanessa never make any mention of that to Julie she only told her that she liked her new glasses as much as her old ones. As soon as Vanessa said that Julie said 'that reminds me i have something for you"  she handed Vanessa the glasses cases sitting on her dresser and said "you can have these, you wore them more than I did anyway". With that Vanessa took off Julie's new glasses and handed them back tom her as she opened the glasses case Julie handed her. Vanessa said that she opened it and took out the glasses and put them on. Vanessa said that she told Julie that they should go out with both of them now wearing glasses. They opted for dinner and shopping as they enjoyed each other's company and for a while at least Julie didn't seem to mind as much that she was wearing glasses. So Vanessa said that she had Julie's old glasses for about week now and was wearing them every chance she got trying to decide if she wanted to start wearing glasses full time or not and I was the only person that could stop her from going full time wearing glasses. So I looked at her wearing her glasses and grabbed her in my arms and kissed her. I told her that I would back and support her in whatever she wanted to do and that includes her wearing glasses. She said that if she wears her glasses all the time Julie will be okay with wearing glasses too, It really seemed like a dream come true for me seeing Vanessa sitting across the table from me wearing glasses and her beautiful green eyes framed by her glasses. I couldn't help but "What she didn't know"

https://vision-and-spex.com/what-she-didn-t-know-t926.html