---
title: William the perfect kid or so he thought.
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-05-27'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
description: A lucky young man navigates unexpected challenges, discovers the importance of sight, and considers a new career path.
---
Now 23 year old William grew up in Greenwood Indiana just South of Indianapolis. William was considered one of the lucky kids. Unlike his older Brother and Sister growing up William never needed either glasses or braces. Williams friends envied him as several of them had both glasses and braces at one time. William from a loving well off family frankly took all this for granted. William unlike his Brother and Sister was very much into cars and took drivers education to get his license as soon as possible which in Indiana the age in 16 and 3 months now. William was upset because an old drivers manual his parents had said 16 years and 1 month but that book was from the late 70's. Despite his Brother (3 years older) and his Sister (5 years older) not ever getting their drivers license William got his on the first day he was able to. William who had worked the last couple of summers of hard work on a local farm was able to buy a car and pay the insurance. William was lucky enough to get a "full ride" scholarship to a local college. The scholarship did not include living expenses but since he was local that was no problem. As William went  to college continuing to drive the car he had bought he did start realizing how lucky he was with good eyes and teeth. The problems started in the summer before his junior year when he turned 21. The BMV laws in Indiana require a 21 year old to upgrade their probationary drivers license to a regular one within one month of that birthday. William who always tried to follow the rules went to the BMV on his 21st birthday and that is when the surprise happened. Since William did not have any points from tickets he was not required to take the written exam but was required to take the visual acuity screening. The surprise was William who had grown up with good vision failed the eye screening and to say the least he was surprised. William was told as per policy he would have to go to an Optometrist for an exam and bring the paperwork and glasses if needed to pass the screening. On the way out of the BMV William looking at the paperwork ran into his friend's Dad who he like everybody else called Red due to the color of his hair. Red wanted to get into the BMV to get in line via taking a # so William stepped back inside with him to talk. William showed Red the paperwork and said I don't understand this as I've always had good vision. Red told William that yes at that age your eyes can change sometimes so gradually you won't even notice it. William who did not know what Red did for a living asked how he knew this and he said I'm an Optometrist. Arrangements were made for William to go to Red's office for an eye exam and sure enough he needed glasses just like his older Brother, Sister and several of his friends from high school. Williams who had to wait a week for his glasses went back to the BMV and passed his visual acuity screening with them. William at first only wore his glasses when driving and sometimes when he sat in the back of a big college classroom. William by the end of his junior year was wearing his glasses all the time in college and when going to a movie or sporting event. During the summer before his senior year Red pulled William aside and asked what he planned on doing after college? William said he had a couple of things in mind but Red said let me make a suggestion. Red whos Son was now making good money as a auto mechanic said with the courses you are taking why not go to school to become an Optometrist. William who was now a -2 R and -1.75 L was wearing his glasses more and more said let me talk it over with my parents. William's Uncle had been killed in a plane crash 2 years before and being well off he left both William and his siblings hefty trust funds. The interest alone would be enough to pay for the extra school. William's parents encouraged him to do what he wants pointing out that having an Optometrist in the family would be good. William is now attending Indiana University Optometry school in Indianapolis. William is lucky the school is in Indianapolis and not Bloomington. Red's partner in his Optometry practice is retiring about the time William would become a full fledged Optometrist so talks are underway to bring him into the practice as a junior partner. William who has been helping Red without pay in his practice during the summers is interested in the idea. William in about 15 to 20 years when Red retires would take over the practice.

https://vision-and-spex.com/william-the-perfect-kid-or-so-he-thought-t1308.html