---
title: 'A Lust for Myopia:'
author: Specs4Me
date: '2017-09-24'
categories:
  - Specs4Me
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

 
When I was 22 I married my wife, who had just turned 20 at the time.  After we had been married for a few months I felt I had made the biggest mistake in the world by getting married when I did, but I managed to hide my feelings. We worked through this rough spell, and I hope that my wife never realized how close I came to walking away from our marriage.
 
I had graduated with a degree in accounting from our local community college, and I took a position at a bank in town as soon as I was married. That was when the trouble started. Part of my job was to interview any prospective tellers, and that was how I happened to hire the young lady that was almost my downfall.  When Dianna walked through the door into my office that morning I took one look at her and fell in love.  Or, maybe the right way to put it would be I immediately lusted after her.  She was the most beautiful woman I had ever seen.  Her medium blond hair was tied back in a ponytail, and her breasts looked like mountains under the tight sweater that she had on.  Her slender hips moved seductively as she walked over to the chair that was in front of my desk, and her legs looked like they went on forever from the high heels that she was wearing all the way up under the rather skimpy dress she wore that clung to her trim rear end. But what really attracted me were the rather strong looking glasses that she wore on her pretty little nose.  I could see daylight past her head through the outside edges of her lenses and her face appeared to be sunk in by the lenses. I had seen others who wore the same type of glasses before in my life, but never on a person who drew me to them like a honey bee is drawn to flowers.  I knew I was doing something that I might regret when I immediately hired her to be a teller, but I just couldn’t help myself. 
 
I don’t know how I managed to keep my hands off Dianna for the 5 years she worked at the bank, but I did.  At night, when I went home to my wife, I pictured Dianna in my mind. When I made love to my wife I was making love to Dianna.  When I was at work at the bank Dianna was always on my mind. She and I often took our breaks together and when we were in the lunchroom talking over a cup of coffee it was all I could do to keep myself from telling her how I felt about her. 
 
Before I met Dianna I had never really thought much about glasses – or glasses wearing girls. But after I met her I found myself always looking at any ladies, or men, who wore glasses with a new admiration. I had discussed her eyesight with Dianna a few times while we were in the lunchroom, and she told me that she was very nearsighted and had worn glasses since she was a little girl. That piqued my curiosity so I entered nearsighted into a search engine and started reading more about it.  And that began what I now can consider an obsession.  I hired a few more tellers who were nearsighted, but none of them intrigued me as Dianna did and I suspected that this was because the lenses in their glasses were not nearly as strong as Dianna’s were. I had discovered during our many conversations that Dianna had a prescription of around -14D in her glasses, and that this was considered to be a fairly strong prescription.
 
My heart ached the day that Dianna gave me her notice.  I knew she had been going out with a boyfriend for most of the time I had been lusting after her and now they were going to get married and move to the city where his job was taking him.  I gave Dianna a glowing letter of reference, and I knew she would have no trouble getting a job as a teller anywhere she went.
 
With Dianna out of the picture and out of my life I decided that I would concentrate on my marriage, and my own wife. We had discussed having children during our almost 6 years of marriage, but I had always put it off by telling my wife that I wanted to pay down the mortgage a little more before she quit work. And since Sheila liked her job as a dental assistant she had gone along with my wishes.  But now, with the idea of someday leaving my wife for Dianna well out of my mind I decided that it would be good to have children before we were over 30 if possible.
 
James was born when I was 29, and Michael came along 18 months later.  We thought about trying a third time to see if we could have a girl, but my wife felt that having 2 children was enough. As she said, she only had 2 hands.  Of course my reason for wanting a girl was that I hoped to have a fairly nearsighted daughter.  But I didn’t know how I would be able to make that possible, because from everything I had read a child had to develop myopia at a fairly early age to end up with a strong prescription like Dianna had.  I had read of mothers giving their child glasses without them needing them when they were quite young and then the child would develop a fairly high degree of myopia. And I had read of children wanting to be myopic so badly that they would wear glasses that they had borrowed from friends.  But most of what I had read was fiction thinly disguised as a possible truth.  That made it fairly easy to give in to my wife and we stopped having children after having the two healthy boys.
 
With Dianna out of the picture my relationship with my wife improved considerably.  I dove head first into being a father, and by the time Jim was 5 I was taking him to play T ball in the spring and summer, lacrosse in the fall, and hockey in the winter. Jim seemed to be a natural athlete and he was good at any sport he decided he wanted to play.  Mike, on the other hand, was more of a bookworm.  He spent much of his time coloring, and learning to read. Once he could read books himself he spent much of his time with a book in front of his face.
 
My studies of myopia had taught me how to spot the approach of beginning myopia in children, and when Mike was around 7 I could tell that he was squinting to see things in the distance, especially right after he had been reading for a long time. He was now 7, and was in grade 2 and I suspected that his teacher would say something to either Sheila or myself.  We had a parent teacher conference one evening in January so we could discuss the Christmas report cards. Mike had gotten good grades in everything and Sheila didn’t feel that we both had to go to talk with his teacher so I suggested that she should stay home with the kids and I would go.  I had seen Mike’s teacher before, as she was a customer at the bank and I thought that she was a pretty attractive young lady.  That night at the interview she didn’t say a thing about Mike not being able to see very well and I thought that was surprising because from the strength of the minus glasses that she had perched on her nose that night I felt that as a fairly high myope herself she should have recognized the signs. 
 
Her glasses had blindsided me because I had never seen her wearing them before and I really liked her looks in them.  I told her that, and then I asked her if she had noticed that Mike had been having any problems reading what she wrote on the board. She told me that she very seldom wrote anything on the board, and that she had not noticed anything that indicated that Mike could not see what the other kids did.  The interview ended with her telling me that she would keep a closer watch on Mike and if she noticed that he was having any problems she would send a note home with him.
 
About 3 weeks later a note came home from the teacher saying that she had noticed that Mike was not seeing as well as he should be and that it was suggested that he should have an eye examination.  Mike protested, and said there was nothing wrong with his eyesight, but Sheila decided she would play eye doctor and she stood him in front of a calendar at about 20 feet.  Predictably Mike could not see the dates on the calendar so it was decided that he had better have his eyesight checked by a doctor.  It was a given to me that Mike would soon be wearing glasses.  Sheila made an appointment for Jim as well, and since it was easier for me to get off work early than it was for her I was chosen as the one to take the 2 boys to see the eye doctor after school.
 
Jim had no problem passing his eye exam, but as was expected Mike failed miserably. The doctor came out to talk to me and he advised me that the auto refractor had suggested Mike needed a prescription between -1.75D and -2.50D.  He told me that his phoropter confirmed that prescription but that he didn’t want to start Mike off with that strong a prescription and he would rather start with -2.00D and he would see Mike again in 6 months. I had read a lot about this in some of the internet research I had been doing, and most of the stuff I read suggested that under correcting a child could lead to an even higher prescription increase within a short period of time. I mentioned this to him, and he seemed surprised that I was so well informed.  He told me that they had found that this was correct sometimes, but not all the time.  I suggested that he should give Mike whatever prescription he thought best, and that I would bring Mike in within 3 months. I asked if Mike needed stronger lenses then would they be supplied at no cost to me.
 
We left with a prescription for Mike for the whole -2.50D and another appointment for 6 months from then.  Mike still didn’t want to get glasses, so I told him that he only had to wear them when he felt he needed to see things a little clearer and that seemed to mollify him.  I suspected that once he started to wear his glasses he would enjoy the clarity of vision and would eventually start wearing his glasses most of the time, and over the next couple of months this was proven to be the case. When we went back in 6 months Mike had an increase to -3.50D and after that he wore his glasses all the time.
 
Mike continued with his indoor activities at about the same pace as he had before he got his glasses. His grades in school were much better than Jim’s had been the previous year when Jim was in grade 3.  Jim was a solid student, but he was definitely more interested in his outdoor activities. Mike was a bookworm, and was constantly reading and on the computer. It did not shock me at all when Mike needed another -0.75D increase in his prescription by the first anniversary of him getting glasses and now my 8 year old son wore what could be considered a fairly strong prescription for his age.  When Mike was 9 he only needed another -0.50D added to his prescription, making his new glasses -4.75D. Then when he was 10 he jumped to -5.50D and his glasses, which I had refused to spend the extra money for hi index lenses for actually had a pretty decent bit of thickness to them. By his 14th birthday Mike had increased another -4.50D and his new -10D glasses had perfectly flat fronts.  I was a little sorry that my son’s eyesight was getting so bad, but I was certainly getting my desire for a myopic child fulfilled in spades.
 
When Mike was 14 he decided he wanted to take piano lessons. One of the piano teachers in town came very highly recommended and after she met Mike she agreed to teach him. Now he was going to her house one afternoon a week for his lessons. Of course, I was asked to purchase a piano for him, but we didn’t have enough room in our house, so I ended up buying him a keyboard, which seemed to do the trick.  Sheila had been the one who set up the lessons and Mike usually walked to the teacher’s house and then on home afterwards.
 
It had only been about 6 months since Mike had gotten his new glasses, and I was a little surprised when he told us one night at supper that he thought he needed to have his eyes checked again.  I called the doctor to see when the earliest appointment we could get was, and it happened to be the same day as his piano lesson, but at 5:00 P.M.  If I picked Mike up from his lessons, and then drove him to the eye doctors we could make the 5 o clock appointment so I figured that was the best way to do it. I had never met his piano teacher before so this was going to be my chance to introduce myself to her. I knew she was a widow, that she had a daughter, and twin granddaughters that were right around Mike’s age.
 
I rang the doorbell, but there was a handwritten sign that said come right in, so I entered the house. There was a young girl sitting in the dining room area, which looked to double as a waiting room. I took a quick look at the girl, and then I took another look. She wore glasses and the glasses had myodisc lenses in them. I had never seen myodiscs before, except in pictures. She was a rather attractive young lady and I was sure that even with the strong glasses she wore she would be sought after by many.
 
Mike was sitting on the piano bench with another young lady beside him. They seemed to be playing a duet, and this went on for another few minutes. Finally the lady who was standing behind them, who I presumed was the teacher, dismissed them, and Mike and the girl walked towards me. The girl Mike had been playing the duet with was a carbon copy of the girl sitting across from me, so it was fairly easy to assume that these were the twin granddaughters of the teacher.  The teacher walked up to me and I almost lost it when I saw her glasses. They were myodiscs as well. Here I had gone from never seeing a real person wearing myodiscs to seeing 3 people in myodiscs in the space of a few minutes.
 
Mike’s piano teacher introduced herself to me as Barbara Walker and then she introduced me to Brittany and Olivia, who really were her granddaughters.  Mike and I had to get going, so I reluctantly left the three myodisc wearing ladies.  On our way to the eye doctor I questioned Mike about the granddaughters and I could tell from the way he blushed when I mentioned Brittany that he fancied her over Olivia.  It was a shame that Mike was only 14, as he still had high school and university to get through before he got married.  I would not have minded having Brittany as a daughter in law.
 
Mike’s eye doctor was a little surprised that Mike had gone up to -11.00 in only 6 months, but as he explained to me this often happened when kids had a growth spurt, and Mike had grown by about 2 inches recently.  They had a 2 for 1 frame and lens special and I ordered Mike 2 new pairs of glasses, but I didn’t order the high index lenses.  I knew the thickness was going to upset Mike a little, but as I explained to him the cost of the high index lenses for 2 pairs of glasses that he would only be wearing for about a year at the most was a little too much for us to spend.  I suggested that if his eyesight were to deteriorate much more we could likely get the same type of lenses his friend Brittany wore for his glasses.  He then told me that Brittany and Olivia had much stronger glasses than he did, and that they had worn glasses since they were babies.  But he didn’t say anything derogatory about their strong myodiscs so I was pretty sure that he really liked the twins.
 
I couldn’t help myself.  After I had met Barbara Walker and her twin granddaughters I started dropping by her place to pick Mike up after his lessons.  I tried to pace myself so that I got there about 5 minutes before Mike was finished, but after a couple of weeks I started coming 15 minutes early.  Mike would be playing the piano, and Brittany and Olivia would be accompanying him on violins.  Along with what I recognized as classical music they were playing a lot of what I would call Celtic music and they were really quite good.  Celtic music came from the highlands of Scotland, and one day I asked Barbara Walker if she had a Scottish background.  Her parents were from Scotland, and she had grown up with that music as her dad had been a fiddler.
 
Because I enjoyed listening to the music some days I would come even earlier and that was how I met Jennifer Brandon, the girl’s mother.  She was a spitting image of her own mom, right down to the myodisc glasses that her mom wore. I couldn’t believe that I now knew 4 ladies who needed myodisc lenses in their glasses. And what was even more surprising was that Jennifer could see well enough to drive her girls over to her mom’s for their lessons.  After that I started arriving early every week, and quite often Jennifer would sit with me and we would talk while the kids gave us a recital.  Even though Jennifer was quite attractive I was not interested in making any advances towards her.  By now I had realized that my obsession was more towards the myopia than it was towards the person and I had enough time invested with my wife that I was not prepared to spoil anything.  And even if I had been, it seemed that Jennifer and the twin’s dad were quite happy in their marriage.  
 
James was 18 when it happened.  He had not wanted to go with his mom and me to a concert that Mrs. Walker was putting on but we finally convinced him that he needed to go to support his younger brother. I noticed that while Mike, Olivia and Brittany were playing their part Jim had a hard time keeping his eyes off the two girls.  After the concert was over there was no argument from Jim when I suggested that we should go backstage and congratulate Mike and the twins on a superb performance.  I had also made sure that I casually mentioned that Mike was pretty smitten by Brittany and all Jim said was that he could see why. 
 
When Jim was introduced to Olivia and Brittany I could tell that he was quite attracted to them.  He did spend more time talking to Olivia though, and I was pleased that I had warned him that Brittany was his brother’s girl. The time he spent talking to Olivia must have worked, because the following weekend Jim and Mike double dated with Olivia and Brittany for the first of many times.
 
Jim was graduating from High School in June, He had not decided what course he wanted to follow in his working life but at least he had the good sense to know that he needed to continue on and get and education. I was a little surprised when he told me that he had decided he was going to take mechanical engineering at a small university that was not well known for much more than its music department. And then I realized why. I was sure that Mike, Olivia and Brittany were going to be attending the same university the following year.
 
Jim had, on his own, learned how to play the guitar.  I am sure that Mike had helped teach him how to read music, but other than what he picked up himself Jim had never had any formal training.  He was quite good at it though, and he and Mike often accompanied each other when they were just fooling around.  Brittany happened to be an accomplished classical guitarist and the 4 of them began to play together at local gatherings and dances during the summer before Jim went off to university. During his first year of university he would come home on weekends and it seemed that they always had a party or a dance to play for on these weekends. Sometimes the parties they played at were ones that my wife and I were attending as well, and if Brit and Olivia’s mom and dad were there as well Sheila and I often sat and chatted with Brent and Jennifer. We were at a party in November that Jim had come home from university to play at when I asked Jennifer if she had ever tried contact lenses.
 
“I wanted to get them, but mom just wouldn’t let me. She felt they had ruined her sister’s eyes and she warned me that they might ruin mine as well.” Jennifer told me.
 
“Oh, your mom has a sister?  Is she a twin as well?” I asked.
 
“She was.  Our family has always leaned towards twins. Mom had a twin sister, and her mom, my granny, was also a twin.  Another genetic trait in our family is that all the girls seem to be very nearsighted, almost from birth. Mom tells me that she and her twin sister needed glasses before they were 2 years old, and so did I.” Jennifer said.
 
“What about any of the men?  Are they nearsighted as well?” I asked.
 
“We don’t know. None of us have given birth to a boy within the last 40 years.” Jennifer replied.
 
“What did you mean about contact lenses ruining your aunt’s eyes?” I asked.
 
“Mom’s twin sister, my Aunt Beth, hated her glasses and when she was 15 she got contact lenses.  Normally in our family we are born with congenital myopia, get glasses at an early age, and have pretty much the same prescription for life.  But once Aunt Beth started to wear contact lenses her eyes got worse and worse until she was so terribly nearsighted she was almost blind even with glasses.” Jennifer said.
 
“Why do you blame the contact lenses?” I asked.
 
“If you are doing a lot of close work when you are wearing contacts you are focusing through a prescription that is designed for distance vision. Our distance prescription is very strong, and because of that we generally need to get a little closer to something to read it because of the minification.  This habit of pulling things close to our eyes does not go away because we get contacts.  With glasses, we can pull them away from our eyes to reduce the prescription slightly, but with contacts a person can’t do that. And with glasses they tend to slip down a little normally.  Mom blames Aunt Beth’s contacts for increasing her prescription.” Jennifer told me.
 
“That sounds logical. Do you ever see your Aunt Beth?” I asked.
 
“She was struck by a car she didn’t see when she was crossing the street a few years ago. She was brain damaged, and lived on life support for a few days, but they finally pulled the plug.” Jennifer told me.
 
“Well, it looks as if either or both of my boys marry your twins I will have to be prepared to have some nearsighted twin granddaughters around.” I said with a laugh.
 
“Would that be a problem?” Jennifer asked.
 
“Not at all. I find both of your girls to be delightful people and I would be happy to have either one of them as a daughter in law.” I replied.
 
After the summer both the twins and Mike all went off to the same university that Jim was attending.  The three of them were studying for a degree from the music department.  The four of them were sharing a 2 bedroom apartment – separate rooms for the boys and the girls of course.
 
The following summer when the 4 of them returned from university Mike and Jim wanted to talk to Sheila and I so we sat down together that evening. They told us that they wanted to marry Brittany and Olivia. And they didn’t want to wait until they were all finished university. But they all wanted to finish their studies and graduate but they still needed our support financially.  It would not cost us any more than it already was, but instead of “supposedly” having a boy’s bedroom and a girls bedroom in the 2 bedroom apartment Jim would be sleeping with Olivia and Mike would be with Brit.  Sheila and I agreed, providing that the boys discussed this with Brent and Jennifer and they agreed to the marriages.  Apparently our sons were a step ahead of us. They had already asked Brent for his blessing to marry his daughters, and he had given it providing we also approved. The only stumbling block was that a double wedding would cost a fortune for Brent.  But the kids had a solution. They were scheduled to play at a huge end of summer party that was being thrown by our municipality. They planned to be married early on the day of the party, and then they would announce their marriage that evening.  Most of their local friends would already be there, and any friends from university that wanted to come would be invited. The only real cost to Brent would be a few drink tickets that he could hand out to friends and relatives.
 
All the plans for the wedding are in place. I am looking forward to watching Brent walk his daughters down the aisle at the double ring ceremony in the church in a couple of weeks. And I am looking forward to having my 2 myopic daughter in laws along with any myopic offspring that they might produce in my future life.  My lust for myopia has been satisfied beyond my wildest dreams.
 
Specs4ever
Feb 2016
 

https://vision-and-spex.com/a-lust-for-myopia-t902.html
