---
title: Beam family eyesight.
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-11-04'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

Now 19 year old college freshman Andrew Beam always wondered about his eyesight. Andrew did not wonder about why he had bad vision buy why he had very good vision being 20/15 in both eyes and being able to read some of the 20/10 line. There was good reason for Andrew to wonder. Dad George age 44 wore Myopic glasses in the range of -10 while Mom Rachel age 43 wore -8 glasses for the same reason. Neither parent as of yet were wearing bifocals or progressive. Younger brother Michael age 15 wore -7 for Myopia and even younger Brother Thomas age 14 wore -6 for the same reason. All of the glasses wearers in the family had some Astigmatism correction.
Andrew had always heard Myopia was genetic and wondered why he wasn't affected. Andrew started researching Myopia at about age 14 and almost everything he found said he should have been Myopic. Andrew when old enough does get his drivers license even though he had no interest in getting it. The reason is his parents insisted because with their vision they hated driving at night. After Andrew got his permit and then his license anytime the family went out at night he drove. Andrew though happy he didn't need glasses had an obsession about why he wasn't Myopic. Andrew who had an eye exam by an Optometrist every year even though the family was told every 2 years would be fine. Andrew did not go to the same Optometrist the rest of the family did because that office specialized in high prescriptions. Andrew instead went to his friends Dad who had a practice only about 2 blocks from where the family lived which worked well because with parental permission he could go on his own. Both his friends Dad and the Optometrists at the specialty office though Andrew should have been Myopic.
One day in the summer between Andrew's junior and senior year of high school he was bored. Both younger Brothers were going to be in a program at the local library and he decided to go watch. Ironically the program was about the importance of getting regular eye exams and if needed wearing glasses as prescribed. The program was a hit with parents of children who were ages 7 to 11.  Andrew was bored because out of the 5 guys he usually hangs out with 4 were out of town on vacation and the 5th had strep throat.  The boys parents couldn't make the program because they were at work.
After the program both younger Brothers decided to walk home while Andrew wanted decided to stay at the library to do some research. A on microfilm (or whatever it's called) and starts reading news starting about a month before he was born. Andrew finds a birth announcement for the same day he was born but it's a different last name though the Mom's name is Rachel. Andrew continues reading and finds where the Dad of the boy born on the same day he was tragically died while jogging 1 month after he was born. Andrew continues reading and finds the man died of an undiagnosed heart condition. The real kicker is their is a picture of the man and he looked very much like Andrew. Andrew starts to wonder because when at age 7 or 8 he went through a bunch of tests said to be a precaution. In 7th grade Andrew wants to play basketball and again goes through more tests and he knows by now they are checking for a heart defect but there is none and he is cleared to play basketball. Andrew checks with other team members and none of them had this kind of test in their sports physicals. Andrew decides to look at high school yearbooks from around the time the man who died would have been in school and he looked even more like him in the senior picture. About that time an older couple walk in the library and notice Andrew who has printed out the picture notice in his hands. The couple say nothing about the picture but asks if your Mom is Rachel Bean and he replies yes. Andrew is told the woman is Facebook friends with her and recognizes him from pictures  she has posted. The couple then asked Andrew to go with them to a park to talk.  The couple and Andrew went to a nearby park. The couple asked Andrew if he suspected he was adopted and he said possibly after what he had read today. The couple explains that the picture Andrew has printed out was of their Son who was the one that passed away. The couple explains that their Son is Andrews Dad but when his Mom remarried when he was 3 George agreed to adopt him. The couple offered visitation but declined with the stipulation that on Andrew's 18 birthday he would be told the truth. The couple had kept up with Andrew via email and later Facebook. Via email the couple and Andrew's parents had discussed telling him earlier because they were afraid something like this was going happen. Andrew's birthday is a month away  so he and the couple decide to wait. Andrew was told that he would be free to contact them if he so desired. The couple then asks Andrew if he wears contacts or glasses and he tells them how good his vision. All of the sudden Andrew finds out why his vision is so good. The couple explains that their family almost all have good vision an in fact they both only use OTC glasses for reading. Andrew's biological Dad who passed had vision very similar to Andrew.
Andrew's 18th birthday comes and his parents sit him down to explain everything. Andrew's parents explain everything and he is handed the phone # and all contact information for his "newfound" Grandparents. Andrew though he know the details and has visited the home and gone out to dinner with the couple feigns surprise. Andrew's parents knowing about his vision obsession tell him that his biological Dad had excellent vision and that is probably where he get his good vision. Andrew's parents tell him we won't tell you to contact the couple but they would love to hear from you. Later that birthday Monday Andrew confesses to his parents he had found out by reading the newspaper from around the time he was born. Andrew tells George that he is the only Dad that he has ever known and he loves him.
Andrew finishes high school seeing his new "Grandparents" as often as he can. Andrew did not know his Grandparents who had no other offspring and were well off prepaid college not only for him but his 2 brothers. The Grandparents and Andrew's parents agreed that starting at about age 14 if he started to ask questions he would be told the whole truth. 
Andrew now understanding the biggest mystery of his life finishes high school near the top of his class and is now enrolled in the local college not sure of a major but leaning towards something to do with eyesight.
This story is fantasy by the way.

https://vision-and-spex.com/beam-family-eyesight-t1505.html
