---
title: 'Beyond My Wildest Dreams:'
author: minus5wholuvsgwgs
date: '2020-12-14'
categories:
  - minus5wholuvsgwgs
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

                                     
As I progressed through school some of my friends needed and got glasses. I managed to pass all the vision screening tests, but part of me hoped that someday I too could wear glasses. There was just something about a glasses wearer that intrigued me and sometimes I wished I could join the club. But I managed to reach the age of 25 without needing glasses and of course I realized that I was fortunate that I had great eyesight. But still there was a pull at my heart every time I saw a young lady about my age looking really cute wearing the right pair of glasses.
 
This desire to become a glasses wearer was so strong that I ordered a pair of glasses online. I had read a few stories about girls that wanted to become myopic, and although I figured I was past the age to have this happen I took note of everything I read. It appeared that the strongest prescription someone my age could wear with reasonable ease was around -3.00D. Not wishing to waste my money, I went online and ordered a pair of nice frames with -1.50D lenses, and after they came in the mail, I started to wear them all the time. Other than a few comments soon after I started wearing them no one seemed to treat me any differently, and in fact I had a couple of men ask me out after telling me I looked really cute wearing my glasses.
 
After wearing the -1.50D pair for a year I had an urge to try a pair of glasses with stronger lenses. I found another frame I liked online and I ordered my new glasses with -3.00D lenses. When the glasses arrived, I could feel that they were stronger, but I actually could focus with very slight effort and saw very well wearing them.  After another year had gone by since I had gotten the -3.00D glasses I went for an eye exam with no glasses on and told them I had been having a little trouble focusing on distant things. I left the eye exam with a prescription for OD -0.75 x 0.75 x 90 and OS -075 x -1.00 x90, and instead of ordering glasses I ordered contact lenses in this weak prescription. Once I got the contacts and got used to putting them in and out of my eyes, I went online, and I ordered a pair of contacts that were -4.25 x -0.75 x 90 for my right eye and -4.25 x -1.00 x 90 for my left eye. I wore these contacts constantly for about 6 months, telling any of my coworkers that asked where my glasses were that I was trying contact lenses.
 
Another year rolled by and I found that my old -3.00D glasses no longer seemed strong enough to wear once I took my lenses out.   I then went back online and ordered a new pair of glasses with a prescription of -4.50D for both eyes along with my astigmatism correction. When they came in, they worked brilliantly. I really liked wearing them and I started to wear them at work again sometimes. Finally, the urge to wear an even stronger prescription won me over and I ordered a new pair of toric contacts that were -6.00D with my astigmatism. They were a little hard to get used to at first, but after a month or so of wearing them I went back online and ordered a new pair of glasses with a -6.50D prescription as I had found out online that after -5D glasses needed to be stronger than contact lenses were.
 
This satisfied my urge for a couple more years. But then I started to worry about the health of my eyes, and I decided I needed a real eye exam. I wasn’t sure what to do. I could no longer see much of anything without either my glasses or my contacts, however I wasn’t sure if an eye doctor would be able to find out that my prescription was not the correct one. I finally decided that I really needed to go to an eye doctor and then I would wear whatever prescription he prescribed.
 
I was surprised with the results. The eye doctor I used pronounced that my prescription was fine for right now, but that I should have a yearly exam because of my high myopia. I didn’t think I was what you would call a high myope, but apparently if you are around a - 6.00D you are considered one. I liked the sound of that, but don’t ask me why.
 
I continued alternating between my glasses and my contacts for another year. When the reminder form came in the mail I called and made another appointment, and when the doctor asked how I felt my vision was I told him that things seemed a bit fuzzy and my night vision wasn’t so great. My new glasses prescription ended up being -7.25D and I ordered both new contacts as well as new glasses.
 
When my boyfriend saw my new glasses, he told me he really liked my appearance wearing them, so my glasses got as much wear as my contacts did that year. My job was rather intense, with a lot of computer screen time along with a ton of paperwork and the following year when my notice came from the eye doctor, I knew I needed an increase in my prescription. My glasses ended up being OD -8.00D x -1.00 x 90 and OS -8.00 x -1.25 x 90. And when I went to order them the optician told me I needed to buy the 1.74 hi index lenses or else my lenses would be pretty thick. I had the 1.67 lenses in my previous glasses, and they seemed just right, but I listened to her and ordered what she suggested. When they came in, I was a little surprised that the front of the lenses seemed to be completely flat, but I sure could see great when I was wearing them. The glasses cost me so much I asked them to hold off ordering my contacts for a while as I just didn’t have the extra money. 
 
Again, I received a lot of compliments on my new glasses, especially from Jeff, my boyfriend. I was beginning to think that he really liked girls that wore glasses as I often caught him looking at other girls and the ones that caught his eye all seemed to be glasses wearers. I also liked the fact that these glasses seemed strong when I looked at myself in a mirror. I could see the indents on the sides of my face that the lenses made, and they made my eyes look smaller.
 
It had been about 6 years now since I started wearing glasses. I loved the fact that when I took my glasses off the world disappeared into a soft fuzzy blur. I could take my glasses off and read even the smallest printing on a box of food, but I could not see well enough to read the printing in a book unless I brought the book uncomfortably close to my face. The realization that I was actually pretty shortsighted now made me tingle with happiness every time I thought about it.
 
Jeff was the one who noticed that I wasn’t seeing very well a little under a year later. I hadn’t gotten the yearly notice for an eye test yet and I hadn’t really noticed anything. But he noticed me constantly pushing my glasses up on my nose to bring the lenses closer to my eyes whenever they had slipped down, and one day at the mall he saw me really struggling to read the menu board at the fast food place we had gone to. I tried telling him that I wanted to wait for my yearly checkup before I had my eyes tested, but he pushed me into going a month earlier.
 
My eye doctor was surprised to see me back early. I explained to him that my boyfriend had pressured me into coming because he thought my eyesight wasn’t as good as it should be, and when he asked me how I thought my eyesight was I had to admit that I was having a lot of trouble seeing clearly unless I shoved my glasses right tight to the bridge of my nose, and even then things were not the best. He did all his tricks with the machine and finally told me that he could get me back to 20/20, but for someone who was 32 years old I had needed quite an increase. I asked him if I should be worried and if not, when would my eyes stop getting worse. He suggested that my eyes were healthy inside, my retinas were fine and that I just seemed to have what he called adult onset myopia, which is often job related. I agreed that my job involved a lot of close computer work as well as quite a bit of reading and he felt that while I might have a couple more increases my eyes would not be a problem as long as I kept my prescription updated.
 
Jeff had driven me to my appointment, and when I came out with my prescription slip, I hadn’t even looked at it yet. He took it from my hand, read it, and told me that it looked like it was a good thing we had come in. It was then that I looked at the slip. Now that scared me when I saw the numbers. I was no longer in what they called the single digit category. My new prescription was -10.00 x – 1.50 x 88 for my right eye and my left eye was -10.00 x -1.75 x 90. The doctor had meant it when he told me I had needed quite an increase.
 
It was going to take a couple of weeks for my new glasses to be ready so I decided to order new contact lenses, as they would be in by the following day. Jeff helped me pick out a new frame that he told me would look quite nice on me. The only way I could see it was from a picture he took, and I agreed that the black cat’s eye frame looked good, and trendy. When it was time to order the lenses, I was a little apprehensive. Jeff suggested that since I had contact lenses again, I should just go ahead and order the 1.67 hi index lenses. The optician helping me told me that they would be fairly thick, but Jeff just told me that it would be all right with him.
 
I picked up my new contacts the following day after work. I decided to leave my old glasses there to have tinted lenses in my new prescription put in them, and this time I just got the cheapest lenses they could supply as sunglasses. When I went back to get my new clear glasses, I took out my contacts and put them on. My vision was great, but as I had been told, they did look much thicker. And my sunnie’s were ready as well. They looked really thick when I compared them to the old lenses that the girl gave me back.
 
That night as I rode home on the subway, I felt that at least a couple of the male riders were staring at me. It had to be my new, thicker glasses that had caught their eye, and I wasn’t sure if I liked the attention or not. I had been so envious of glasses wearers all during my school days that I had often dreamt about having to wear glasses. I had never imgined that my glasses would ever be as thick as they were though and now, I had no choice but to now wear what many people would consider coke bottle glasses. I was not sure if I could even get up the courage to wear my new glasses to work the following day, but I also knew that I would be better off wearing them immediately and getting it over with. I had mentioned to most of my coworkers that I had gotten new, stronger contacts and that my glasses had needed to be made stronger, so I had set the groundwork.
 
Jeff dropped by soon after I got home. He knew I was picking up my new glasses and he wanted to see how they looked on me. I asked him to tell me honestly what he thought, and he said he liked them enough to ask me to marry him. I wasted no time in telling him that if he asked, I would say yes, and he brought out a small box containing a beautiful engagement ring. This desire to be myopic had gone far beyond my dreams.
 
Specs4ever
Aug 2019
 

https://vision-and-spex.com/beyond-my-wildest-dreams-t1914.html
