---
title: Born almost blind but there is some hope.
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-05-24'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

I was born in 2000 and early in my childhood it was found I was almost blind. I was able to read with my limited sight using very thick glasses and a full page magnifier but that was about it. I couldn't see more then 6 to 8 inches in front of me even using glasses and the magnifier. As I got older on the outside I acted like my disability didn't bother me but on the inside I hated my life. I tried to stay athletic but to run I had to use a treadmill as there was no way I could be near traffic without being lead by someone. Same with bikes as I could only use the stationary kind. I kept myself in good shape out of boredom more then anything else but I longed to do what sighted kids do. One thing I really wanted to do was drive but I was told none of the low vision devices would help with that. I didn't show on the outside but I fumed on the inside when kids griped about having to wear glasses which made their vision good. I wanted to smack the kids and say how would you like to be in my shoes? What I didn't know that in about 2010 an operation over seas (I'm in the US) was showing promising results for people with my condition even giving some better then 20/20 vision unassisted. There were a few complications such as going completely blind and even a couple of deaths from botched operations. When the procedure was given limited approval in the US in 2015 I was considered a candidate. I had to sit down with my parents, doctors and a mental health professional  to discuss the possible results including total blindness or even death. What I had never told anybody is if this didn't work I would just as soon die. We all agreed I was right for the procedure which was scheduled on my 15th birthday September 11 2015.  I had the procedure which I came thru just fine. My parents were told you should go home and get some sleep as he will be out for several hours so they agreed to come back in the morning. The bandages only had to stay on overnight after the 12 hour operation and were removed before my parents got to the hospital At once I realized my sight was better. I picked up my phone and looked in amazement as I could see it unassisted. I looked at the nearby entrance to the room and said so that's what a door looked like. I was told I was going to the emergency room to see what I could read on what  l later was a standard Snellen eye chart. I read the 20/100 R and 20/80 L and in front of the medical staff I dropped the F-bomb. The Dr. said to use your term what the F-bomb is the matter with you? I said that is still not good enough to drive. The Dr. whispered something I couldn't hear to a staff member pointing to an item on a list. The staff member then returned with a pair of glasses that I later learned were for a mission to a 3rd world country to help see. They put the glasses on me and said now what can you read? I read the 20/50 lines with both eyes but I knew what wasn't good enough to drive as I had researched the subject. The Dr. said before you say more with a regular pair of glasses slightly stronger then this you will probably see 20/20 and yes easily able to pass the driving exam. Just then my parents having just arrived after finally getting some sleep were brought into the room and heard the Dr. I was told I was going home the next day and by the 3rd day went back to the blind school I had been going to just to complete the semester and then go into regular school if all went well. I was told to wait a month before going to an Optometrist for an exam and glasses. During that month I easily learned to ride a 2 wheel bike and did some running outside. I did have to learn how to handle running in traffic which I did easily. The only real thing I wanted to do then was learn to swim but I had to keep my eyes dry for several months (I wore tight fitting googles in the shower) that had to wait. On October 17th I finally had my eye exam. Unlike kids I wanted to punch in the past I was excited about getting glasses. By then my sight had actually improved slightly to 20/80 R and 20/60 L. The Optometrist after doing the exam with what looked like a space craft contraption put a pair of funky looking lenses on me and opened the curtain. When my parents asked if I wanted them in the exam room with me because I was afraid I would say something which I did. My parents had heard me cuss on occasion but really disliked the F-bomb. When the Optometrist put the lenses on I said "Holy F-Bomb" so I was glad my parents weren't in the room. Luckily they were never told what I said the first time at the Snellen chart. I had to wait 10 days for my glasses and when my Dad took me to pick them up I messed up and dropped the F-bomb in front of him. My Dad said "Son usually I would be mad but I can't be this time" so I was relieved. I was told I didn't even have to wear my glasses all the time as I could do so only when needed. I didn't say this at the time but there was no way I wasn't wearing glasses all the time as I wanted to see as well as possible. After the semester ended in January I transferred from the blind school to regular one as a 9th grader. I finished the 9th grader with good marks and prepared for my sophomore year. During the summer I was able to take swim lessons and still keeping in shape even lifting weights now easily picked it up. At my eye exam during my sophomore year my prescription stayed stable. The rest of high school was relatively uneventful with a few exceptions. My prescription did increase slightly a couple of times but I was still easily seeing 20/20 with glasses. In 2017 I got what was once thought to be impossible my driver's license which was restricted to glasses but I didn't care. A friend of mine from school who did not know my history was very upset when he failed the vision screening for his license. He asked what wearing glasses was like and I said I loved them. I then told him I was almost totally blind until age 14 when a somewhat risky operation gave me my sight. The deal with my friend who was younger then I was happened on the last day of my sophomore year just before the start of a health type class which was a requirement for our grade in the magnet school. I had a car by then but didn't drive it that day. I told my Dad to take it to work because the check engine light was on in his and he drives 35 miles each way. I told my friend to count the people wearing glasses in this class and there were 12 of 28 students plus I knew at least 2 more were wearing contacts. The teacher then comes in and explains her last day of school tradition. She had us write down without using our names on scrap paper, g for glasses, c for contacts, h for have glasses but don't wear them and n for no or don't need glasses. There were of course 12 for glasses, 5 for contacts, 3 for have glasses but don't wear them, 7 for no or don't need glasses and my friend who wrote down none of the above just found out I need glasses yesterday. Our teacher then explained it was strictly voluntary (grades were already posted) we could explain our vision history such as when we got glasses or why we did or didn't wear them.  Several students revealed what age they got glasses and how much the wore them and adjusted to the change. My friend told his story of not being able to take his drivers test yesterday and sitting by me was giving me the signal I should tell my story. Nobody in the school not even the office knew my history except my friend who I had just told. My parents have been encouraging me to tell my story but be a private person I hesitated. After several students had told short stories I told the teacher mine was too long to tell. The teacher said we still have 35 minutes if you want to since nobody else is willing. I said ok and told my story including wanting to die if the procedure didn't work. I had never ever told anybody that part before. The reason I told was I was trying to reach the 3 students who have glasses but didn't wear them. I realized several students in the class were actually crying after I finished my story. One girl came up to me and said I'm one of the 3 and when I go home I'm putting my glasses and wearing them all the time like I'm supposed to. I was happy that I seemed to reach at least on of the 3. During the bus ride home I talked with my friend who had a 180 degree change in attitude about getting and wearing glasses. After I got home I was asked by my Mom to take my Dad's car to the local parts store for the test on why the check engine light was on. I during some downtime at school had researched check engine lights and it said one of the causes was a loose gas cap. I checked the cap and it was loose. The parts store said yes that is what's shown and the light will go off in time which it did. My friends Mom called me later that night and said what did you say to Dillion to change his attitude on glasses? Dillion had not told his Mom my story so I did and she started crying on the phone while thanking me. Dillion did get his glasses and his license and by the start of our junior year I found out 1 more of the 3 had started wearing his glasses like he was supposed to but in this case just for reading. During our junior year the last 1 of the 3 started wearing her glasses at school as she was having trouble seeing the board. During the summer between our junior and senior year in a town about 50 miles away there was a meeting all expenses paid for people who have had the procedure I had. My parents couldn't go and the medical team running the meeting said they were ok with a 17 year old coming by himself. My parents asked me if I was comfortable driving there or if I wanted to take a bus? I said what is the difference driving to that town or the one almost the same distance the other way where my Grandpa lives which I had done several times? My parents agreed it was no different and I drove to the meetings and for less then the 5th time I told my story including wanting to die if the procedure didn't work. I said I have a lot to live for now. I finally told my parents just before leaving for the meeting about wanting to die if the procedure didn't work. My parents asked if I wanted to see a mental heath professional but I said no I don't need it now and they respected my wishes. I finished my senior year and just last week graduated 3rd in the class. The funny part is the 2 ahead of me were 2 my story convinced to wear glasses when they should but I was just ahead of Dillion who after getting glasses started wearing them all the time. I'm looking forward as is Dillion to going to college in our hometown next year. Were lucky we both have scholarships which will pay for everything but lodging and food both of which are no problem since we will continue to live at home.

https://vision-and-spex.com/born-almost-blind-but-there-is-some-hope-t1306.html
