---
title: "Chrissy's Story"
author: soundmanpt
date: '2018-06-29'
categories:
  - soundmanpt
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

The story starts when Christine Marie Thompson was a 17 year old high school girl that was the star player on her softball team. She was not only the best hitter on the team but a great fielder as well and besides be a very good athlete she was also quite attractive and was voted prom queen in her senior year. Chrissy, that's what she preferred to be called, she never had any problem about having a date on the weekends. She really didn't want to limit herself to any one boy so she would date different boys most of the time. 

She grew up as the typical farmers daughter in a small town in Livingstone Tennessee  She lived on a farm with her parents and she was an only child. She had her chores to do but enjoyed the farm life. After graduating from high school she headed off to college in Nashville to study computer science. She stayed in a dorm with another young woman about the same age age as her and she was also in her first year of college. 

Her name was Diane and she was a bit on the quiet side but very friendly and they got along well right from the start. Diane was quite attractive even with hardly any makeup with  darkish blonde hair and glasses. She had a nice shape but seemed more comfortable wearing sweats than dressing up. They didn't real hang out with each other very much except once in while to go out for fast food when neither of them felt like cooking. Diane seemed to be a bit of a book worm and when she wasn't studying she would likely be reading a novel of some kind. 

Chrissy would do her studying and then she wanted to play and have a good time. Back home Chrissy had started learning to line dance at a local club near her house. So she decided to see if she could find a place where she could go and do some line dancing near school. After asking a few people she was told about "The Hay Bale" that wasn't far away at all. So she back home she was used to going to the club near her house on her own so didn't have any problem doing the same here as well. 

She went in and right away she noticed that it was much bigger than the club back home. She found a table off to one side of the dance floor and ordered a drink. She thought it best to first watch to see if she knew any of the same dances they were doing. Some she recognized but some she hadn't seen before. It didn't take long before she was being asked to dance. After turning down a few offers she finally was brave enough to give it a chance. So the next guy that asked she accepted his offer to dance. The first dance she knew and did just fine with but before she could sit back down another song came on and she didn't know this dance but the guy she was dancing with was very nice and gave her a quick lesson. She danced a but longer and finally went back to her seat. While she was sitting she noticed a nice looking guy that was a very good dancer on the floor. He was dancing with a fairly attractive young lady that was wearing glasses. While he was dancing she was sure that he glanced over at her several times. After a few more dances she didn't see him anymore. Then suddenly he was standing in front of her and asking her to dance. Without any thought she got up and headed to the dance floor with him. By luck the first song that played she knew very well and had danced to it many times back home. 

He told her his name was Tom and she told him that her name is Christine but she prefers to be called Chrissy. They danced several more dances and she did okay with most of them but he was a much better dancer than she was and she told hm so. He went back to her table with her and sat down beside her. She didn't mind at all because he was quite handsome and was the perfect country gentleman. They were asking each other all sorts of questions and really just getting to know each other. Tom was also from a small town in another state. He was earning a living as a real estate agent and he was 25 so a few years older than Chrissy. They spent the rest of the evening just talking and soon the place was about to close so Chrissy gave Tom her number and Tom gave her his number and they agreed to meet the following Saturday night at the same place. As Chrissy was driving back to her dorm she couldn't stop thinking about Tom. She had been on many dates back home and she felt this way before. Now she couldn't wait for Saturday to come so she could see Tom again. 

As planned when Chrissy got there Tom was already there and once again dancing with the girl with glasses. But as soon as he saw Chrissy he parted ways with his dancing partner and came right over. Chrissy was somewhat curious about his dancing partner because she was not only attractive but a pretty good dancer as well. Tom must have felt the need to explain his relationship with his dancing partner so he right away started telling Chrissy that his dancing partner was just an old good friend and all they have in common was dancing. Chrissy didn't see any harm in that and understood having old friends and keeping them. They were soon on the dancing floor and Tom was more than willing to teach Chrissy a lot of the new dances that she didn't now, and Chrissy was a very good learner so she caught on right away. After enough dancing they decided to go somewhere to talk more and get to know each other more. 

They ended up at Tom's apartment something Chrissy always told herself she would never do on a first or second date. But Tom was a gentleman and didn't try to take her to bed and only gave her a few nice kisses as they were watching TV. She liked that, but she wasn't sure herself what she would have done if he had tried to take her to bed? She really was liking this guy. As it turned out on their 4th date they had sex and by then Chrissy more than willing. By now they were seeing each other more often during the week and meeting for dinner and going to movies. This went on for a couple months and they were really a couple by now. 

But one thing Chrissy seemed to notice was when they were out on a date Tom seemed distracted every time an attractive young woman wearing glasses walked by. This happened quite often and Chrissy was sure it wasn't her imagination. Attractive young women not wearing glasses he didn't seem to notice at all. She wasn't going to say anything as long as he wasn't touching any of them but she wondered if he had a "thing" for good looking women wearing glasses? But if that was the case, why was he attracted to Chrissy since she didn't wear glasses? So Chrissy just tried to put it out of her mind and not let it bother her. But now it was beginning to seem like things were somehow different. The sex wasn't as good as was at first and Tom seemed to be having various things come up with his job causing him to cancel dates with her. But she knew his job was demanding so she figured that was the reason and maybe the sex was just not as much fun as it was before because of his job. And when they were together he was still sneaking a peek at any attractive young woman he saw wearing glasses. Now this was getting troubling to Chrissy. 

The next day she was telling Diane about how Tom seems to have a "thing" for attractive young woman wearing glasses because every time one walks by he sneaks a peek at them thinking i'm not watching. Diane smiled and told her that Tom likely has a "glasses fetish" for young attractive women wearing glasses. Diane told her that when she first started wearing glasses she noticed that she was getting more attention from guys with a glasses fetish for the first time. Now she is used to it and it doesn't bother her anymore. At first she said she thought it was kind of weird. Diane asked her what she planned on doing about it? Chrissy admitted that she really had deep feelings for Tom and didn't want to give him up. But at the same time she doesn't wear glasses so how is she supposed to compete for his attention when he seems only interested in a glasses wearing woman?  

Diane took her glasses off and handed them to Chrissy and said try these on and lets see how you look as a glasses wearer? Chrissy laughed a bit but put the glasses on to please Diane. Diane told her that she looked pretty darn good wearing glasses. Chrissy couldn't see much with Diane's glasses on but she did get up and go over to the mirror in the corner of the room to take a look at herself. Chrissy had never seen herself wearing glasses before so this was a first for her and she had to admit that she didn't look bad at all wearing glasses. In fact she kind of liked how she looked wearing glasses. Chrissy took the glasses off and handed them back to Diane. Chrissy thanked her for letting her try her glasses. Chrissy told her that even though she looked pretty good wearing glasses Diane's glasses are too strong for her. As soon as Chrissy said that Diane smiled and headed towards her bedroom. A couple of minutes later Diane came back carrying 3 glasses cases. She told Chrissy that they were her old glasses which are all now too weak for her eyes to be any good for her anymore. She told Chrissy that she could have any or all of them if she wanted. Chrissy was mildly interested and at the very least was curious how she would look wearing some of Diane's old glasses and if maybe one of them might be weak enough for her to actually wear. 

So she sat at the table where Diane had laid the glasses cases. Diane told Chrissy which ones were the oldest and weakest and which one was the more recent pair. Chrissy started by trying on the newest pair and they looked nice on her but they were too strong for Chrissy to see hardly anything wearing them. She took that air off and went for the next newest pair and they too looked nice on her but still a little too strong but Chrissy could tell they were weaker than the first pair. So she took them off and tried the oldest pair and Diane said that if she recalls the prescription in those glasses was only -1.25. Chrissy put them on and even though they were older than the others they actually looked better on her than the other two pairs looked. Even better Chrissy was able to see things better with these glasses than any of the other she had tried on. Things were blurry but with a little bit of straining her eyes she could make out things pretty well. They seemed to fit better than the others as well and were quite comfortable to wear. Diane even before Chrissy said anything told her that those glasses look amazing on her. She told her they really suited her and she looked very natural wearing glasses. Chrissy kept them on for a while and she couldn't stop smiling. She just said she just didn't know about the idea of wearing glasses just to get the attention of her boyfriend. Diane told her that it was up to her. But she should take the glasses to her room so she will have them if she decide to start wearing them. 

That night as Chrissy laid in bed she couldn't sleep thinking about what she should do. After a while she got up and put on the glasses that Diane had given her. She sat with them on looking at herself in the mirror on her dresser. The more she looked at herself the more she liked how she looked wearing glasses. She knew that if she were to decide to start wearing glasses that her good eyesight would likely be ruined forever. But by wearing glasses she would give Tom what he would probably love to see anyway. She was sure that he would be thrilled to see her wearing glasses from now on and they could live happily ever after. She went back and laid down still wearing the glasses as she watched TV. It wasn't long before she was seeing the TV nearly perfect with her new glasses on. She fell asleep with her glasses on and she still had them on when Diane came in to wake her up. Diane was laughing at her for falling asleep with the glasses on. Diane told her that she must really like the glasses if she slept with them on. Chrissy told her that she couldn't sleep thinking about trying to decide to wear glasses or not. And how she left them on when she laid down as she was watching TV. She told Diane that after having them on for a while her eyes seemed to adjust to them pretty well. 

That day they both had classes so they headed off in different directions to their classes. Chrissy left her glasses at home because she still wasn't sure what she was going to do. But she couldn't stop thinking about the idea of wearing glasses. Her last class was at 2:30 so when she got home she grabbed her glasses and headed for the local mall. She didn't wear her glasses while driving because she knew she needed her eyes to be more adjusted to them before she could start wearing them fro driving. But as soon as she got parked she took her glasses out of their case and she gave them a good cleaning before putting them on. As she looked at things in the distance through the lenses of her glasses it seemed very strange having lenses in front of her eyes. If she was going to be a glasses wearer she was going to have to get used to that. Things were blurry but not terrible and with just a little bit of straining her eyes she could focus quite well with her glasses. She didn't go to the mall with any intention of buying anything but just to test her eyes and how she would see wearing glasses. Surprisingly to her it really wasn't as bad as she thought it might be. She wasn't seeing perfect but more than good enough not to walk into someone. 

After about an hour of walking around and window shopping her vision had improved by quite a bit and she was seeing everything nearly perfect if not completely perfect. By now she hardly even noticed or gave any thought that she was wearing glasses. They were that comfortable on her. She decided to get a coffee and sit down for a few minutes. After she ordered her coffee and sat down she noticed that she could read the whole menu board from where she was seated perfectly with her glasses on.  But when she took her glasses off the menu board was too blurry to read so she put her glasses back on and it instantly was clear and readable again. She had been in the mall for several hours and it was time to drive back to her dorm. Now that her eyes had adjusted so well Chrissy decided she should leave her glasses on to drive. When she got back to her dorm Diane seemed a little surprised to see her wearing glasses. Chrissy told Diane how she had decided to test her glasses by going to the mall for a nice long walk and window shop as well. She told Diane what happened when she stopped for coffee and found that she could read the menu board without her glasses so she just left them on even driving was fine. Diane told her that she did the right thing by keeping her glasses if her eyes had already adjusted to them. Chrissy kept her glasses on the rest of the evening as they watched a little TV. 

The next morning Chrissy was curious if she would be able to see without her glasses or if she would need to start wearing them that day? But as soon as she got up and looked out of her window she knew that her vision had returned and she wouldn't need to wear her glasses for class. But she also knew that most likely at some point she would wake up and look out of her window and see nothing but blurry images if she makes the decision to become a full time glasses wearer. But she honestly enjoyed wearing her glasses at the mall the night before. Wearing glasses really wasn't bad at all and she liked the way she looked wearing glasses. So she decided that like the day before as soon as she gets out of class she is going to the mall again. This time she even had her glasses in her bag so she could go straight to the mall. During some of her classes she was really tempted to get her glasses out and put them on and let everyone see her as a glasses wearer but she didn't. 

Once again as soon a she got to the mall she again cleaned her glasses good and put them on and headed into the mall. Unlike the day before this time it seemed like her eyes adjusted much faster than they did before for some reason. In a matter of minutes she was seeing everything perfectly clear with her glasses on. That really surprised her that her eye adjusted so fast. By the time it was getting close to heading back to her dorm she again planned on stopping for a coffee. She couldn't believe how clearly she was able to read the menu board for quite a distance away. She was sure that her eyesight with glasses was as perfect as you could get. Once she sat down with her coffee she took her glasses off and laid them still open on the table in front of her as she looked around. Everything was now very blurry and she couldn't make out anything more than a few feet away from her. She was sure that the blur she was getting was lasting longer and longer each time she wears her glasses now. She knew then that it probably wouldn't be long if she starts wearing her glasses full time before long the blur wouldn't go away anymore. It's time that she makes her decision as to whether she is going to wear glasses or not. On the way home she talked to Tom and she made her decision then that she was going to be the glasses wearer that Tom would want her to be. 

When she got back to her dorm she told Diane that she had made her decision and that she would be wearing glasses from now on. Diane seemed very happy for her and told her that she is sure Tom is going to go crazy when he sees her wearing her glasses. Chrissy had been on a date with Tom since she got her glasses from Diane but she never said anything because she wasn't sure what she wanted to do. So the next morning both girls had classes to go to only this time Chrissy was going to class wearing her glasses for the first time. Chrissy got up extra early so she could wear her glasses long enough around the house so her eyes would adjust to her glasses and she could drive safely wearing them. Of course Chrissy was a little bit scared going into class wearing glasses for the first time but Diane had already told her that she would be getting lots of attention the first day with plenty of nice complements. 

But by the next day her wearing glasses would be old news already. As it turns out Chrissy couldn't have been more right. As soon as her classmates saw her wearing glasses they were giving her all kinds of great complements and asking her questions about her glasses and how her vision is without glasses now? Chrissy had no problem at all with wearing glasses and her eyes seemed very comfortable wearing glasses now as well. She had 3 classes that day and the only time she had her glasses off was when she was in the ladies room and she had to take her glasses off to check her makeup where her sit on her nose. She needed a little touchup their and she was surprised that she had to get a little closer to the mirror to see what she was doing without her glasses being on. So her first day of wearing glasses went even better than she expected. Now that she had made the decision that she would be wearing glasses full time she didn't bother taking her glasses off once she was back in her dorm room. She would keep her glasses on until she got in bed. 

When Diane got home she asked Chrissy right away how things went for her first day of being a glasses wearer? Chrissy told her that her advice was dead on that she was pleased with all the attention and only got lots nice complements. This was only Tuesday so Chrissy still had 3 more days and a good part of Saturday before she would be seeing Tom. By then Chrissy felt pretty sure that she would not only get used to wearing her glasses but her eyes should be completely adjusted to her glasses by then as well. And she was already very comfortable wearing glasses so that wouldn't be a problem either. The 3 days dragged by for Chrissy but she could tell with each passing day that her eyes were taking longer and longer to return to normal and even then she didn't think her eyes were completely back to perfect anymore. She was sure that she was now seeing better with glasses than without glasses even in the morning before she put on her glasses. 

The plan for Saturday night was that Chrissy was going to pick up Tom because he had his car in the shop getting some work done on it. So when Tom opened the door he couldn't believe his own eyes seeing Chrissy wearing glasses for the first time. He grabbed her and hugged her so tight that he nearly broke her in half. He couldn't stop telling her how amazing she looked wearing glasses. He had tons of questions for her. He wanted to know when she got them and why she didn't say anything to him and does she need to wear them all the time? He was very pleased when she told him that she needs to wear them full time. He couldn't stop telling Chrissy how beautiful she looks wearing glasses. Of course Chrissy was extremely pleased with how happy he was as well. They headed off to dinner with Chrissy driving and the whole time she was driving Tom just kept on saying how good she looked wearing glasses. 

Once they got to the restaurant neither of them seemed very hungry and Tom really was wanting to get back to his apartment to make love to Chrissy. So they dropped the idea of going to a movie and headed back to his place. Tom wanted Chrissy to keep her glasses during sex and she was fine with that too but several times Tom bumped his head into Chrissy's glasses hard enough that they hurt her nose being pushed so hard. She was afraid that her glasses might get broke so she told Tom that she needed to take her glasses off. Tom actually gently removed her glasses and laid them on the bedside table for her. This was the best sex that she had had in some time and she could tell that he was really into it for a change as well and she was sure it was because she was wearing glasses now. So to her it was worth ruining her perfect eyesight for. She was already starting to really like being a glasses wearer. 

The next month or two were really great and Tom was much more into their relationship and the sex was fantastic. She was able to keep her glasses on during sex several times which Tom seemed to really enjoy even more. No doubt what Diane had told Chrissy was right about how some guys have a glasses fetish and Tom is one of them for sure.  

Part 2 to follow.               

https://vision-and-spex.com/chrissy-s-story-t979.html
