---
title: "Chrissy's dorm mate - Diane's Story  Part 3"
author: soundmanpt
date: '2018-06-30'
categories:
  - soundmanpt
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

Going back to Chrissy's dorm mate Diane. Well as it turns out Diane has a story of her own that needs to be told. That night when Chrissy came home all upset because Tom was constantly watching with great interest every attractive young woman that was wearing glasses walk by. There was a reason that Diane was careful not to push Chrissy into starting to wear glasses so she could get Tom's attention back on her. Diane only provided her with several pairs of her previous glasses to try and totally allowed Chrissy to decide if she wanted to wear glasses or not. Diane knew when Chrissy came home from being at the mall wearing the weakest pair of her old glasses that Chrissy was going to be a glasses wearer. Diane asked her how it felt to be wearing glasses? Chrissy gave a little smile and said that she was surprised at how comfortable wearing glasses really was. Her only complaint was that they felt a little tight behind her ears, but not too bad. She told Diane that when she first put them on things were a little blurry and after few minutes it felt like her eyes were in some way being pulled towards the lenses of her glasses. Probably because she was straining her eyes trying to focus with them. But the longer she wore them the clearer her vision seemed to get. She told Diane about near the end of the night she stopped for a coffee and she could read the menu board just fine. Diane told Chrissy that she could adjust her glasses so they don't feel so tight. She pulled Chrissy's hair back on the left side and felt where the earpiece was sitting behind Chrissy's ear and it was tight enough to be red behind her ear. She checked the right side as well and she told Chrissy that they are too tight and it would soon cause sores behind her ears if left alone. Diane took Chrissy's glasses off and she went in the bathroom to get her hairdryer. She turned it on and when it was hot she held Chrissy's glasses under it where the earpieces were. After a few minutes she slowly bent the earpieces slightly back a bit with her fingers. Diane said that should help. She waited until the glasses cooled down before handing them back to Chrissy. Chrissy put them back on and said they were much better. Diane again reached behind Chrissy's ears to check the fit and now they weren't nearly as tight. Chrissy left her glasses on after that. 
Anyway back to Diane and why she was being so careful not to influence Chrissy in anyway about choosing to wear glasses or not wearing glasses. It had to be totally her decision. When Diane was in her 2nd year of high school she was noticing more and more of her classmates were getting glasses. Even a few of them got fake glasses from Clare's. Now getting glasses was one thing which she though was pretty cool, but no way would she ever get fake glasses. Diane had her eyes checked the year before and she was told that her eyesight was perfect so she was pretty sure there wasn't any change in her eyesight that would maybe get her a nice pair of glasses. She enjoyed trying on several of her friends glasses and they all told her that she looked really good wearing glasses and looking in a mirror she had to agree. One of her friends enjoyed going to thrift shops and often bought some nice clothes as well as jewelry in them. In one of the stores Diane noticed a box on  shelf with a bunch of sun glasses and glasses cases as well glasses in it. She picked through the box and found a couple pairs of not very old glasses that she found interesting. She saw a mirror not too far away and she was going back and forth trying on the glasses she found one pair that she really liked and they looked really good on her. They were semi-rimless pair with a slight cat-eye shape. Really cute glasses. They made things look smaller and a bit more intense. She showed her friend and she agreed that the glasses really suited her. The price was only $5.00 so she paid for them and wore them as she walked home. Diane made her friend promise not to tell anyone where she got her glasses from. Her friend agreed. Diane took the glasses off before she went into her house because she knew her mom wouldn't approve. She could just hear her mom going off in a rant about how she's ruining her wonderful perfect eyesight by wearing glasses. For Diane it was normal for her to help her mom get diner and then go to her room to study or read a book. Diane really wasn't a TV watcher and enjoyed reading far more. So as soon as dinner was over Diane headed for her room. Once she was in her room she was able to put on her new glasses which was thinking about all through dinner. She quickly found that her eyes didn't seem to like having glasses in front of them when reading. For some reason reading seemed more difficult than seeing things at a distance. But Diane was determined so she kept the glasses on as she read for several hours before taking her glasses off and going to bed. The next day Diane got up and was excited because today she would be like many of her friends, a glasses wearer. She got dressed and went down had some juice and cereal and was out the door headed for school. As soon as she was about a block away she opened her glasses case and put on her glasses. Diane felt good wearing glasses. Her vision wasn't the best wearing them but not terrible either. Once at school Amy, Taylor, Miranda, and Paige were standing in group and they were surprised to see Diane wearing glasses. They were all telling her how good she looks and asking her all kinds of questions about her glasses. And of course a few of them insisted on trying them on. Taylor that wears glasses full time commented right away that "oh I see that you're nearsighted too" Taylor said that Diane's glasses were just a little weaker than hers. That comment made Diane think. So if my glasses are nearly as strong as Taylor's and she wears her glasses full time that must mean that when my eyes adjust to my glasses i'm going to need to wear glasses full time too. "sweet"  By the time class was to begin Diane first had to clean her glasses due to everyone trying them on their was smudges and fingerprints all over the lenses. She had forgot to get cloth to clean her glasses with so she had to use her shirt tail to clean them. With her glasses clean and back on she headed into class. Her vision was clearing up more and more and she could read everything on the chalk board without any problem. By the end of the day Diane was so comfortable wearing her glasses that she hardly even thought about them. When she got close to home she took her glasses off and she was surprised at how blurry everything was without her glasses. But she liked the feeling the blur gave her. But it only lasted a few minutes and soon her normal eyesight was back. She went to wash her hands so she could get started helping her mom get dinner. But when she looked in the mirror she saw red marks on both sides of her nose where her glasses were resting all day. Her mom would clearly notice that and ask what caused the marks? So Diane rubbed and rubbed on her nose until the marks were nearly gone and she used a little makeup to cover the red. After dinner Diane found a handkerchief to lean her glasses with when they need cleaning. Her next thing she needed to get was a pair of sunglasses with the same type of nose pads as her glasses so she can claim the red marks on her sunglasses. Next day except for the few that didn't see Diane the day before the fact that Diane was now wearing glasses was old news. By the end of the 3rd week everything was pretty much a routine for Diane. Her vision with glasses was now completely perfect and she was feeling more and more like she was beginning to really need her glasses to see properly. She hated having to take her glasses off as she got close to home and the blur was lasting longer and longer and she was pretty sure that she was starting to squint to see things in the distance. She had bought a nice pair of aviator sunglasses which had the same type of nose pads as her glasses. Now she always made a point to have her sunglasses on top of her head when she wasn't wearing her glasses. Her mom, as expected did notice the red marks on Diane's nose and Diane only said that her sunglasses were causing the marks and her mom never said anything again. Diane nearly got caught once by her neighbor Mrs. Boyce. Diane was doing some shopping for her mom and had her glasses on when she suddenly as she was about head home she saw Mrs. Boyce walking to her car.  Mrs. Boyce even gave her a ride home. Diane hadn't gone for her learners permit and was holding off until she was sure that she would soon be able to go for an eye exam and be prescribed glasses. But she wanted to start driving badly. Doesn't everyone? She had her sunglasses on top of her head and quickly pulled them down over her glasses. Thank goodness Mrs. Boyce wasn't able to see her glasses under her sunglasses. One other time Diane nearly got caught was when she forgot to put her bottle of eyeglass lens cleaner away in her drawer. She left it out on her dresser and her mom saw it and wondered why she had eyeglass cleaner. That night she asked Diane about it and Diane was quick on her feet and said that she bought it to clean her sunglasses with. Mom was fine with that answer. 
By now Diane had been wearing her glasses nearly full time except when she was around her mom. Those times were getting harder and harder for her because her eyesight had deteriorated enough that now without her glasses it was getting harder and harder to function. She remembered Taylor commenting that her glasses were about the same strength as hers and Taylor needs her glasses all the time. So if their glasses are about the same Diane reasoned that would mean that she should be wearing her glasses full time too. So Diane decided that it was time to tell her mom that she was having problems seeing the board at school and that she thinks she might need glasses. Her mom smiled and said "well it's about time that you said something about your eyes. I was wondering how long you would go before you finally said something?" She told Diane that several weeks ago she was out with a friend and she had forgotten something and her friend was driving her back to her house to get it and she saw Diane walking home wearing glasses. So she started checking other times as well and was seeing that she was wearing glasses all the time except during dinner time. Her mom said that she would call for an appointment the next day. Diane was surprised that her mom wasn't unset at all. Her mom told her that she might as well wear her glasses now that the truth has come out. Diane put her glasses on and her mom told her that she looked good wearing glasses. 
Diane went for her exam and she wore her own glasses to the appointment and the doctor told her that her glasses had a prescription of -1.25 in  both lenses and she actually only needed a -1.00 prescription so she could continue wearing her own glasses if she wanted or get new ones. It was up to her. She had the doctor write the prescription for new glasses with the same -1.25 since she was already used to wearing that prescription and he agreed to do that. That way she had 2 pairs of glasses to choose from to wear each day. Those were the glasses that she gave to Chrissy to wear. Diane wanted to keep her first pair that he got form the thrift store. 
Two days after getting her eye exam Diane went for her learners permit so she could soon get her driver's license. Her eyesight never did change which she was hoping for it to so she found out about ordering glasses on line and became a customer of Zenni Optical. She didn't tell any of this to Chrissy because she didn't want her to maybe consider doing the same thing. So after a few more eye exams with only going form -1.00 to -1.25 as her prescription Diane decided she wanted stronger looking glasses so she read enough about vision to understand diopters so she knew that her eyes should be fine with being over corrected by about a -.75 increase. So the other 2 pairs of glasses that Chrissy has are -2.00 and -2.75. Diane's current glasses are -3.50 and she says that is as far as she plans on going.     

https://vision-and-spex.com/chrissy-s-dorm-mate-diane-s-story-part-3-t981.html
