---
title: Ex-boyfriend
author: mau8
date: '2023-02-17'
categories:
  - mau8
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

Hi everyone,
I'd like to share my story. 
I've always had a fetish with men struggling and squinting to see. I don't know why. I Rember having this weird fetish since I was a kid. Always have been very careful and by today no one knows about it. I'm gay and some years ago I had my first boyfriend. He was handsome, tall and good looking. I met him at the university when we were in our early 20's. Anyways in the begging we were just classmates but started going out with some other classmates and eventually become friends. After one or two years we started dating and became a couple. 

Since I met him I had a feeling that he might needed glasses. I guess he was starting to develop myopia. He’s kind of egocentric/selfish person so must of the time he ignored if someone said something bad about him. Acting like he was perfect. We had some classes together and always liked to sit down in the back of the classroom. He boasted about having a perfect eyesight. But in our latest two years of university, I was pretty sure he needed glasses but refused to accept it. I noticed he confused the numbers written on the chalkboard frequently. We were studying accounting so there were a lot of numbers written on the chalkboard in most of the classes. 
One class in particular the teacher always wrote small numbers and I catched him up taking photos with his cellphone to the chalkboard, but the camera wasn’t good, so it didn’t work. He finally asked me if he can copy from my notes. I asked him why if everything was on the chalkboard. He said it was easy and faster to copy from my notes because if he copied from the blackboard, he had to focus his sight in every word and that made it take longer. I didn’t say anything because if I tried to say something about his eyesight, he denied it and started blaming and make me feel like I’m crazy and he’s perfect. After that day he started copying from my notes in different classes. But he didn’t ask or say anything like the first time. I realized he just copied without asking me. Of course, I knew the reason. This become a source of excitement for me. I enjoyed when he was squinting trying to read what was written in the blackboard. I think at that point he just had around -0.75 or -1.00 myopia. But it was enough to have troubles while copying in the classes. Eventually I started noticing more squinting. When we were at the cinema he had troubles to see the movies schedule or the menu. In a bar to see/read something far away. But he always tried to disguise his squinting. He did it when no one was watching him. Despite all the facts he didn't complain about his vision at all. I think he knew his vision wasn't as good as it used to be. But refused the idea of wearing glasses. He was the type of guy that looks perfect and doesn’t have any flaws. And mocks other people's shortcomings. I remember I felt insecure when he was driving at night. In the day there was no trouble. But when we went out in his car, I noticed he had problems while driving because he couldn't see very well the lines and signs on the road. So, must of the time I preferred to drive in order to avoid having an accident.
Time passed and we finished our degree. So I only saw him when we were going out. 

The last year of our relationship was the worst for his vision. I remember he started confusing objects and shapes. One night we were at a bar with some other friends and the drinking menu was on the wall. It wasn't too far. It was like 15 ft away from our table and the letters were like a medium size. I asked what he wanted to drink. I noticed he was squinting sneakily to read the menu. But even squinting couldn't read it. I loved when he tried to read something far away. After a few tries he couldn't read anything and just stood up from the table and went to the wall to read it. He came back very happy and told us the prices for drinks. And we were like dude we can read the prices from here. You don't need to tell us. He thought all of us were unable to read the menu like him. He didn't say anything about he couldn't read. He just ignored what we said and started talking about he wanted to order. At this point it was obviously he needed glasses. It was that moment when I noticed his myopia level had increased since we had finished our degree, his eyes were always red and like with tears.  I think because of the effort they were making in trying to focus on distant things. At the same time he mentioned he was seeing halos in the night while he was driving. And everything was blurry, cars, objects etc. I told him that he needed to get his eyes checked because that was not normal. But again, he denied the fact he might need glasses and fixed it just putting some fresh drops on his eyes. 

But finally, the day came. One day we were walking at the downtown of the city and he told me something like he had been having troubles with his eyesight and he wanted to take a vision test. He finally admitted it. He asked me how far I can saw. There were ads and signs pasted on the walls and we did like a small test. I asked to read some of them. Covering one eye and then the other one. Of course, he struggled a lot just to read something that it wasn't too far. And the smallest letters he couldn't even see them. I just told him like man I'm pretty sure you need glasses. But he still doubts about the fact he needed glasses. OMG I couldn't believe it. I think he wanted to hear it from a doctor. After he took his vision test the doctor told him he needed glasses. She told him he only had around -1.5 and -1.25 myopia. And a little astigmatism in the -1.5 eye.  

That was shocking for him. He thought his vision was perfect and he just needed to rest and some drops or medicine. I told him that there was nothing bad about wearing glasses. I've been wearing them since I was a kid. I told him he could buy some contact lenses, and no one will know he was wearing them. But he was sad and disappointed. I never understood why. He was always searching how to cure myopia naturally and effectively. And still refused to wear glasses. He never bought a pair of glasses and kept saying he didn't need them, and his vision was fine. After this moment everything became easier for him because he didn't have to pretend, he didn't need glasses. And I have to read for him the letters/menus/signs that he couldn't.

Unfortunately, our relationship ended up a few months after that. And I never knew if he got glasses or no. I hope he did it. He really needs them. 

https://vision-and-spex.com/ex-boyfriend-t2543.html
