---
title: Glasses Moments 3 - Holiday Romance - (X)
author: Astigmat
date: '2015-01-05'
categories:
  - Astigmat
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

This story contains adult content, so if you are underage or easily offended, please do not read any further.

Continuing my recollections of true events which have happened to me over the years, this must surely rate as my all-time favourite glasses moment. It is still so vivid in my mind, and it always gives me enormous pleasure to relive it in my mind, and sometimes dream about it if I'm lucky. This is the first time I have written it down, and it is such an intense story and still so real to me that I only hope I can do it justice. You, the dear reader, will be the judge.

From when I was very little, up until my late teens, my parents always used to take me on holiday to a very remote village in one of the most beautiful parts of the country. We had relatives there, and sometimes we would stay with them, sometimes rent a cottage, or other times stay at a B & B. It was our "home from home", and we were almost accepted as locals. The last time I ever went with them was when I was 16. There wasn't a lot to do there, but we would just stroll along the village, chat to people, sit in the sun, or my parents would go for a drink in the hotel or sit in its beer garden while I played on the beach. Sometimes we would pack a picnic and go for car runs to other beauty spots and explore the area. On one of these trips, I had the most memorable experience of my young life.

There was a local family living in the village who we had become quite friendly with. It was a large family of ten children ranging from age six right up to mid twenties. Most of them had either left home and worked in the cities as there was no work at home, or they were at college which entailed living away from home. One day as we were walking past their house, the mother came out with this girl who I had never seen before. She introduced her as Jean, her daughter, who happened to be 18, two years older than me. Now this is where I fall down, because words just couldn't describe the feeling I had as soon as I saw her. Even words don't do her justice when I try to describe her, but I will try. Obviously, the very first thing I noticed about her was her glasses. By then I was a very keen glasses fan, as you will know if you have read my other stories, and her glasses just took my breath away. I knew they were quite strong, and with the knowledge I have now, I would say -10 or-11, possibly even higher. The thing I noticed most about them was the front of the lenses was flat. She was facing the sun and I had my back to it. Apart from her having to screw her eyes up for the dazzle, the sun kept reflecting in full, and every time she turned her head it would flash in her lenses completely obscuring her eyes. This was in the early sixties, and her frames were very fashionable for the time. They were plastic frames, with the top halves a reddish pink, and the colour gradually fading to clear plastic around the bottoms. The temples had little pointy bits with little silver hearts set into the plastic. The legs had a gentle curve dropping down from the temples to her ears, and they were red plastic gradually fading to clear at her ears. And her minified eyes were framed by several rings repeating themselves inwards from the edge of the lenses. I just became a blustering bumbling wreck when she was introduced to me, and I've no idea what I said, but it must have been completey uninteliglible! As we talked, (well, my parents and her talked!) she told us that she worked in a residential home in the city where we lived, but she was home for the summer holidays. And then it happened. My father suggested that she come with us the following day for a picnic in the car to a very remote beauty spot about 12 miles away. He told her she would be good company for me! Ha! Of course, she agreed, and we made arrangements to pick her up at 11 am.

I couldn't sleep that night. I lay awake all night thinking of her. I could see her vividly in my mind (and still can). She could be described as a tomboy. She had been dressed in old faded jeans and a checked cowgirl shirt with bare feet. She made no effort to style her hair - it was allowed to blow wild in the wind. She wore no makeup - she didn't need to. She had beautiful healthy rosy-red cheeks with classic sculptured cheekbones, lovely pink lips with a profile to die for, and to add to her beauty, two little dimples at each side of her mouth which you barely noticed until she smiled, then..... wow! And another feature I had never noticed in a girl before, but she had it, was ever so slightly protruding front teeth - not unsightly in the least, but just giving a magical touch to the whole package. When her mouth was closed, the top lip just extended slightly more than normal with just the hint of a tooth showing, which struck me as an incredibly sexy feature. And those glasses! I was totally smitten.

The next morning I felt terrible. I'd had hardly any sleep, but I forced some breakfast down. We set off, and as arranged, she was waiting at her front door for us. As we approached, we could see that she was wearing very short sky blue shorts, a skimpy lemon halter top, and a bare midriff. It was going to be a very hot day, but she also carried a white light jacket as it could get cool near the sea. My mother immediately commented, "She's not got much on, has she?" My father's answer (with a smile) was "She's young!" She got into the back of the car beside me and we set off. My parents initiated the conversation and asked her all about her work. I just didn't know what to say, so I just sat and listened, and looked at her as she was replying to them. This was the first time I had looked at her side profile, and immediately I was struck by the thickness of her glasses lens edge protruding inside the frame. I had never seen that before. I also noticed that with the movement of the car, her glasses kept slipping down her nose. She had a very dainty little pert nose which obviously had never been designed for glasses! She kept pushing them up with her forefinger on the bridge, and one time before she did, I noticed that you could see a pair of minified eyes through the glasses, and at the same time her own eyes in the normal size over the top of them. Magic! I wondered if that was how the term "four-eyes" came about. The cut-in on her cheek profile was so severe through the lens that I was sure you could almost see her chin in the lens! I was sitting there, taking this all in, and with her outstanding natural beauty, the movement of the car, and the whole experience, I will leave to your imagination what it was doing to me!

We reached the picnic spot which was at the end of a long bumpy dirt track. The scenery was outstanding, and apart from a house which was barely visible through the trees, we had the whole place to ourselves. My mother spread a rug out on the ground and my father set up some folding chairs. We sat and ate the picnic, and I actually managed to chat to her about music. The Liverpool scene was just exploding at that time, and I found we both loved all the groups. I still couldn't take my eyes off her, and I'm sure she was beginning to notice it.

After the food was finished, mum said she was just going to read her book for a while, and everyone knew that dad was going to have a snooze in the sun! He said, "Why don't you two go for a ramble round the beach and see what you can find?" Jean jumped up and shouted to me, "Come on. Let's go and look for crabs in the rock pools." She made off at full speed, turned and shouted, "Can't catch me!" I chased after her, but I couldn't catch her - she was an expert at jumping over slippery rocks. Eventually she let me catch up, and she said, "Let's go round the headland where it's more secluded. There are much more crabs there." I followed, and we walked for a good 10 minutes and stopped at a point where the ground rose up from the beach in a grassy slope above rocks. There were lots of rock pools, and she waved me over to one. "Look, there are crabs in here," she shouted. I went over to the pool, and before I knew it, she jumped with both feet into the pool and completely soaked me! She just stood there with a cheeky grim, waiting for the repercussions. I yelled out, "Hey - you little....." Then she bent down, took handfuls of water in her cupped hands and threw it all over me. My mind was racing. 'What's going on here,' I thought. 'What do I do now?' I bent down to a pool beside me and took a cupped handful of water and threw it all over her. Her face was soaked, and it was dripping off her glasses. "Hey - watch my glasses, I hope there's no stones in that water," she shouted. She jumped up and started to chase me. I ran, but soon stopped to see what would happen. My heart was racing, and I was panting from being out of breath. She came up to me and said, "Hey, you're a real weakling - out of breath already - you townies are all the same!" I couldn't answer. Then, an amazing chain of events took over.

She said, "Let's go over to the grassy slope and dry off and have a rest." We walked over to the point in the picture where the rocks and grass rise up from the beach. She suddenly turned round and looked straight at me. I was completely aroused from her beauty, her voice, her glasses, her teeth, her dimples, and last but ny no means least, the magic of the surroundings. Then she said to me, "Take my glasses off." I just stood there with a quizzical look on my face. "Go on," she insisted. I reached up to her face, took hold of her glasses gently and slipped them off her nose. My hormones were racing by now. "Now fold them and put them down in a safe place on the grass," she said. I did so, and I could see my hands were shaking. I could feel my leg shaking. I could feel lots of things. As I stood there, she came closer and cupped my face in her hands. Her hands were very warm, and still a bit wet. I could see her top was wet from a mixture of the sea water I had thrown at her, and also rivers of sweat running down all the channels, especially the one leading down to the valley between her breasts. I could smell the sweat, I could smell her. I looked in her poor myopic eyes, and I swore she had the lost vacant look that you see in blind people. I was obviously a blur to her even at that distance. She drew my face to hers, and gave me a little baby kiss straight on the lips, then withdrew. She was trying to look at me and smile, but I was sure she was looking past me. I then repeated her action, took her face in my hands and gave her a little baby kiss. Her eyes lit up, she gave a little yelp, and she grabbed hold of me so hard I thought we would fall over. We both started to kiss passionately and I thought I had died and gone to heaven! What a power this girl had over me. She pressed herself hard against me as we kissed. I only had a tee shirt on, and I could feel her hard nipples pressing into me. She didn't even have a bra on! When I looked, I could see her eyes were shut - probably the best idea for her. She wrapped her thighs around my leg and started to move in a rhythm without stopping the kissing. She explored with her tongue, and I ventured to do the same, feeling those wonderful teeth. She tasted like heavenly nectar. I was sweating by now, and I could see she was too. I said to her, "It's too hot." She said, breathlessly, "No, no, it's never too hot! Feel how hot I am. Feel me," and with that she guided my hand inside her top. I had never, ever felt those parts of a girl before, and it totally electrified me. I couldn't stop what was happening down below, and she knew it. Her hand went down there, she gripped me, and the most unlikely thought went through my head - 'She doesn't need glasses to do this!' She worked me up to a complete frenzy, and at the same time she was panting and whimpering like a little whipped puppy. She took my other hand and dragged it right down inside her shorts. She had no panties on. She made me rub her, and she was saying in short breaths, "See how hot I am, see how wet I am, see all that - it's all your fault!" I didn't care whose fault it was by then. I was in heaven!

Then we heard the shout - "Kids, are you there? Hello - are you there?" It was my dad's voice coming round the headland. "Ah, there you are," he said as he spotted us. Immediately all activity stopped, and we must have looked like the guiltiest pair ever! "Have you lost your glasses?" he said to Jean. "N-n-n-no, no," she stuttered. They got splashed and I'm just going to clean them. Can you get them for me?" she said to me. I picked them up, opened them up and put them on her face. "We're going back now," my dad said. "Did you find anything?" he added. "Oh yes, we found lots," Jean said!

We packed up the stuff into the car, and on the way back Jean took her glasses off and held them up. "Do you have a duster in the car," she asked. "My glasses are covered in salt from the water." My mother handed her a special cloth from her bag that she used to clean her own glasses with, then Jean handed cloth and glasses to me. "Can you do it for me please? I can never see properly to get them clean." This was just the icing on the cake for me! I took the glasses and the cloth and started to clean them. When I felt the thickness of the edges of the lenses, it started a whole new stirring in me. I cleaned them as best as I could, and I just loved to feel the gradual increase in the thickness as I started in the centre of the lenses and worked outwards. I just wished this moment would last forever. She put the clean glasses on, and handed the cloth back to my mum. Then she said, "I hate having to wear glasses - hate it, hate it, hate it! Every time I get tested, my eyesight's got worse. I'm gonna go blind, I'm sure of it." I didn't know what to say. I just gave her a cuddle and she put her head on my shoulder and pretended to cry. I'm sure my dad was watching us in his rear view mirror.

All the way home, Jean kept tickling me, poking me, and at one point rested her hand on a very risky point when there were parents present. I reciprocated by sliding my hand right up her thigh, much to her delight, and we still kept tickling each other and laughing. When the hilarity got a bit out of control, my father shouted from the front, "Children, children, behave! I think you two need to grow up!" If only he knew! Then he said, "I'm so glad you pair get on so well together!"

At the end of the holiday, Jean and I had made arrangements to meet up back home in the city where she worked. It never happened, my mum made sure of that. She had done some asking around, and found out that there was a strong rumour that Jean had had a baby at age 15. The child had been adopted, and the whole thing swept under the carpet. Mum fired a warning shot to me - "If you hitch up with that trollop, then you're on your own. I'll disown you."

All stories don't have a happy ending, but this one had a very happy middle. They say you never forget your first love, and I don't know if it was love of Jean, love of her glasses, or just pure animal lust. I think it was a bit of all of that. Anyway, I've never forgotten her, and never will.

Thank you for reading, if you got to the end!

These are similar glasses to Jean's.


The picture is an actual photograph of the exact spot where this story took place. The grassy/rocky area is to the right of the picture.

https://vision-and-spex.com/glasses-moments-3-holiday-romance-x-t543.html
