---
title: "Growing up in the 60's and 70's."
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-04-22'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

In September of 1969 I was a 10 year old 4th grader in the Nashville Tennessee area. I had a Brother 2 years older in the 6th grade. Of course we had a normal relationship between 2 brothers sometimes loving each other and sometimes fighting. Our grade school had it's annual vision screening that year. I passed but my Brother did not and was referred for an full exam. I was told since neither one of us had ever had a full exam I was going to. I was excited because I thought glasses were cool then and still do. My Brother was not happy and didn't think he needed glasses as he was having no trouble seeing things such as the board in school. We had the exam and both of us were prescribed glasses. I was happy and after a minor adjustment period was soon wearing my glasses full time. My Brother only wore his glasses when he really wanted to see far away such as a sporting event or movies. My Brother didn't even take his glasses to school most of the time. I proudly wore mine and as happens back then just a few kids teased me with the four eyes but I laughed it off. I had even gave the leader of the pack a few ideas to use. In December of that year the Doctor's office which also sold and fitted glasses was involved in a scandal. The local newspaper had an adult and a 15 year old tested by a Doctor confirming they did not need glasses. The 2 were then sent to the same office we went to and both were prescribed glasses which they pressured them to buy there. When the newspaper and a TV station that had picked up the story they were asked for comment promptly thrown out of the office. During Christmas break my Brother and I were told we were going to have another eye exam by a different Doctor. My Brother was happy still saying he didn't really need glasses. Our parents reminded him the school screening said he did. My Brother went first and was told he did need glasses. I then went thru all the tests for myself. The Doctor asked if I had went to the office involved in the scandal and when my Mom replied yes he said I thought so. I was told I did not need glasses and started crying. The Doctor said tears of happiness right and I said no I love wearing glasses. As we went into the 70's my Brother's vision got to the point he had no choice but to wear glasses all the time while my vision stayed good. In high school I often wore non prescription glasses inside either with a tint on top or by this time an early version of transition sunglasses had came out so I preferred them. I was bummed out every time I went for and eye exam and was told you do not need glasses. Kids and teenagers glasses were becoming more common in the 70's but not like they are now. My Brother got contacts in high school and I thought he was crazy. I had a good friend who tried contacts and had nothing but problems so he gave up and went back to glasses. My Brother was different as he was OCD and did very well with contacts. We both finished high school, went to work and started families with my Brother continuing to wear contacts. When he got in his 40's he tried monovision contacts but didn't like them. He then had to wear reading glasses over his contacts which I thought if he had to wear glasses why bother with contacts? In 2004 at age 45 I noticed I had trouble reading up close or my arms weren't long enough. I had not had an eye exam in about 3 years so I made an appointment expecting to be put in bifocals or progressive. I was told my distance vision was better then 20/20 and to simply get over the counter reading glasses. I hated the half frame readers you looked over to see far away and I couldn't see far away wearing full frame readers. I then found the solution in bifocal readers with a line. The readers were clear on top and a reading correction on the bottom and sold over the counter. I didn't care what people thought of me wearing lined bifocals. In 2013 on you tube I learned about Zenni Optical. After doing some research ordered a pair of progressive which I loved and with one prescription change wear to this day. I started getting an eye exam and my distance vision is still good to this day and at 60 with no sign of cataracts. Even though I have great distance vision I wear the progressive glasses full time with only a couple of exceptions such as wearing sunglasses when driving. My Brother on the other hand had to have cataracts taken off both eyes two years ago and now only needs glasses for reading. The funny part is when I told him about Zenni he ordered a pair of progressive with the top clear and his reading correction and now wears them nearly full time even though he doesn't have to. My Brother went from the 12 year old who didn't think he needed glasses to wearing them full time even though he doesn't have to. I wonder what our parents who both passed away in the last few years would have thought of that. Even as a 10 year old I remember the fights my parents had with him about wearing his glasses My parents would say such things as your Brother wears his glasses why don't you?

https://vision-and-spex.com/growing-up-in-the-60-s-and-70-s-t1272.html
