---
title: I always wanted glasses but have 20/20 vision.
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-04-01'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

In high school I was the only one out of my group of friends who did not wear glasses. There were 7 of us and 5 wore them full time and one only when driving. My friends envied me and I envied them. They would say things like glasses are a pain. I did have trouble with UV light. A friend said get some clear lens glasses with good UV protection. I wore them starting my freshman year in high school for and it seemed to help. I was taken for yearly eye exams even though my Doctor said I only needed them every 2 years. The reason for a yearly exam is my Dad and Brother wore glasses for myopia.When I had my exam in the summer between my freshman and sophomore year I mentioned the UV problem to my Doctor. He told me the same thing my friend had told me. I almost forgot to take my UV glasses when I was taking my driver's permit exam. My Dad who never understood why I wore the glasses said as I got to the machine take your glasses off. Between my sophomore and junior year when I went for my exam the Doctors office had a machine for pretest instead of looking letters projected on the wall. I was happy when I couldn't see some letters on the very bottom line. I was sure I was going to need glasses. When the Dr. came in I said give me the bad news acting like I didn't want glasses. He said the letters I couldn't read were on the 20/15 line. I said I don't have 20/20 anymore and I need glasses. The Dr. laughed and said no this does not mean you need glasses as 20/15 is better then 20/20. He asked me if I was still wearing UV glasses and I said yes. He did all the rest of the checks and said your eyes are fine and you don't need glasses. I acted like I was happy. By the time my Sophomore year ended I was wearing the UV glasses almost full time. During my Jr. year I heard about the Zenni Optical blue blocking lenses. I was told by my Dr. he liked these for heavy screen users which I was. I said are you going to write me a prescription for them? He said for plano you don't need one. Just order plano with blue blocker which I did. They came with the UV protection so I wore them 95 percent of the time. I was still bummed as I wanted glasses with at least a little power. I had my license and a car by then and about the only time I didn't wear them was when driving in sun and I used good polarized sunglasses. I finished high school and prepared for collage with good vision but still wearing the UV/blue blocker glasses. When I got to collage and met my roommate he said oh you wear glasses too. I told him only for UV and blue light blocking and there was no power. He told me he had 20/20 vision but had trouble with night driving and had low power glasses prescribed for that. That gave me an idea. After I got in some classes I called my parents and said I think I need glasses as I was having trouble seeing the board in some classes which I wasn't. They told me to find a Dr. in my new area and get an exam. Note I did not get an exam between my senior year of high school and freshman year of collage as I was too busy. I go to the an eye Dr. near the collage and tell her about having trouble with night driving. She said that I can give you -.50 glasses so you can see if they help, I was extremely happy. The Dr. was next to a major optical store but independent from them so I told her as a collage student I was going to shop around. I got my laptop out and ordered my glasses from Zenni which I already knew about from the blue blockers. I told my roommate what I did but I was going to wear them all the time and he said I was crazy. "It will make your eyes worse" he said." That's ok with me" I said. I got the glasses and wore them all the time. I acted like I wasn't happy that I had to wear glasses. I even did a YouTube video the problems of wearing glasses such as walking in the rain and 3D glasses at the movies. I went all through collage wearing the glasses full time except when I had my eye exams and. I was told to continue what I was doing with night driving and wear them no other time. Funny thing is I had always been a good student but wearing the glasses with power with power I got even better. When home on break I told my parents the Dr. said as needed and since I was sensitive to UV and blue light I wore them all the time. The one good thing about not needing glasses to drive is you could get a good pair of sunglasses over the counter for sunny days. After graduating collage in the January of 2018 (1/2 year early) I took a job about 70 miles from my hometown. I continue to wear the glasses to this day even though as of December of 2018. Several friends who told me the glasses would make my vision worse if I wore them all the time must have been wrong.,

https://vision-and-spex.com/i-always-wanted-glasses-but-have-20-20-vision-t1238.html
