---
title: 'It Was My Fault:'
author: pingueculum
date: '2020-03-16'
categories:
  - pingueculum
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

                               
 “Look Jimmy, I already increased my glasses prescription from the -20D I was wearing when I first met you at 16 all the way up to -40D over the past 10 years we have been together.  But that’s it. I am not going to go any higher for you. I have reached my limit. And -85D glasses – you must be nuts!” Laura exclaimed angrily.
 
“Honey, you don’t understand. I don’t want you to make your eyesight any worse. What I am suggesting is that you wear the -85D glasses over +30D contact lenses. I was able to find a pair on the internet that are brand new, and I am the winning bidder. They should be here any day now. And I have ordered a pair of +30D contacts in the same size that fit you when you were 18 and we didn’t want to let your parents know that you were trying to increase your prescription.” I replied.
 
It was going to take a little more sweet talking on my part before I could get Laura calmed down enough to go along with my plans. And really, I could not blame her for being upset. When I first met Laura she was a very pretty young girl of 15 with a really decent figure. I was immediately attracted to her, mostly because of the strong glasses she had worn since she was old enough to go to school. She confided in me that she loved wearing glasses, and she thought she wanted her glasses to be even stronger. The more we talked the more I learned about her. She had actually done everything she could to get new glasses with a higher prescription every time as she was growing up. She read constantly with her books very close to her face. Every year she would complain that she could not see the chalkboard at school and she would make sure her eye appointments were after a full day at school. She would tell the eye doctor who examined her that her vision at night was very poor and she would always pick the red over the green. As a result, by the time she was 15 her prescription was around -19D. For her 16th birthday I bought her a pair of glasses that had a prescription of -20D from a website on the internet. On our first date – which occurred right after she turned 16 because her parents wouldn’t let her date before that, I gave her the new glasses to wear. She loved them and she really liked the crisp vision they gave her.
 
By the time Laura was 18 she had been wearing -23.50D glasses for a year, and I bought her -20D contact lenses so that her parent’s wouldn’t know that she was wearing a stronger prescription than she really needed. She had worn the -20D glasses I gave her for her 16th birthday for around 6 months, and then I bought her a new pair of glasses that were -21.50. When she turned 17 I bought her glasses that were -23.50D and when she turned 18 I gave her the -20D contacts to wear as well as a new pair of glasses with the corresponding -26.50D. Now she was 26, and her glasses prescription was right at -40.00D. Her newest contacts were -26.00D, but while she had the correct contacts to wear, she hardly ever wore them.
 
Laura really got a kick out of playing the blind girl.  Her visual acuity with contacts was likely right around 20/40, but the best she could do when wearing glasses was 20/70. She played this to the hilt though, and when she was at her eye doctor she made sure that she indicated that she could not read anything past the 20/200 line. As a result she was listed as legally blind and she was entitled to use a white cane, which she did a lot of the time. Because her supposed corrected visual acuity was right at 20/200 she was on disability, and received a nice check from the state every month. We had wanted to get married, but we were afraid that her disability payments might take a hit if her income was added to mine, so we had just lived together for the past 7 years. Our daughter Maddie was an only child, was a healthy, active 3 year old, and the disability payments allowed Laura to stay at home with her.
 
When Laura was able to first wear her -40.00D glasses at the age of 24 we both decided that this was far enough. She was nearing the age where her eyes should not deteriorate any further, and we were actually both very satisfied with her prescription. Now, at age 26 we had purchased 4 different pairs of glasses for her to wear as her feelings dictated. There is not a lot of choice in lenses for this high a prescription and her glasses were all fairly similar in lens design. The front bowl was likely around a -15D prescription, and the rear bowl held the remaining -25D. Of course the front bowl was larger than the rear bowl and was about 30mm in diameter, with the rear bowl being around 25mm. These glasses looked a bit strange in appearance and when you knew what you were looking at, if you looked at Laura you could tell that they were for a very high degree of myopia. I liked all of the 4 pairs of glasses we had purchased on her, but I made sure I never told her that she looked better in any one particular pair – and really she didn’t. One pair was a clear whitish appearing plastic, and the other 3 pairs were black. One black pair had a cat’s eye shape, and they looked really nice on her. The other 2 pairs were in a similar black frame with as large an eye size as possible but one pair had the area around the bowls frosted so they looked the most unusual of the 4 pairs.
 
Because Laura seemed to be very happy about the fact that she had become so extremely nearsighted I was not prepared for her reaction to the suggestion that she should do GOC with +30D contact lenses and -85D glasses. I had thought she would jump at the chance and I had not even entertained the idea that she would be worried about her own eyesight getting worse by doing GOC. That evening I attempted to discuss the matter with her again, but her mind was closed and she refused to even entertain the idea.
 
A couple of days later I came home after work to find Laura sitting at the kitchen table. In front of her was a brown cardboard box with lots of postage on it. She had opened the box and had the glasses that were in it in her hands. I suspected that she had tried them on, but I believed that after she had realized that there was no way she could make her eyes focus through those -85D lenses she had put her own glasses back on and had been closely examining them when I came in.
 
“You want me to wear glasses that are this strong?” Laura asked.
 
“I only wanted you to wear them with the proper contact lenses under them so that your eyes didn’t get any worse. I thought you would get a kick out of doing that.” I said.
 
“How did you calculate the correct contact lens power?” Laura asked.
 
“I went to that table I found on the internet a few years ago. I entered the difference in power between your glasses and the -85D glasses – which is -45D. You have no cylinder so I entered 0.0. You are wearing them as glasses so I put in the refracted distance as 13.5mm and then I also put in fitted distance as 0.0mm. The calculations showed that for -45D of glasses power you would need -28.00D of contact lens power. Then I reduced the refracted distance to 12mm and the contact prescription jumped to -29.25. But they don’t make these lenses in under 0.50D steps. I then changed the -29.25D contact lens prescription to a plus power and figured that since you really like wearing your glasses tight to your face we should be safe with +30D contacts.” I told her.
 
“Well, maybe when the contacts come in I might try them – just to satisfy you that is.” Laura said.
 
It took another week before the package containing the 2 vials of the special +30D contacts showed up in our mail. I got home that night and the first thing that Laura asked me was how in the heck did I expect her to put these contacts in? I had not really thought about that but with her regular contacts she only had to fumble around blindly until she got her first lens in. Then she could see to put her other lens in. By adding another 45D of myopia with the + 30D contact lenses to her already strong -40D she was completely blind. But the funny part was that she now wanted me to help her put the contacts in so she could try the glasses. Of course I did that immediately.
 
“Whoa, this is trippy.” Laura said.
 
“What do you mean?” I asked.
 
“Everything is so tiny. And looking through these lenses is a lot like looking backwards through a pair of binoculars. Now when I swing my head around it makes me dizzy. It is really kind of neat though.” Laura said.
 
“What can you see?” I then asked.
 
“Well, as far as the furniture goes I can see the shape of everything, but things are real tiny. I can see the clock on the wall, but I can’t really make out the time from here. I know there is a calendar on the wall, because I can see the shape of it, but as far as reading anything on it, I can’t see much more than a blob of white. And I can’t make out the features of your face from here.” Laura said.
 
“Come closer until you can see me.” I said.
 
“Now I can see your features.” Laura said from about 2 feet away.
 
I reached out and pulled her towards me. I hugged her and gave her a big kiss. I looked at her glasses, trying to see her eyes behind the powerful lenses. I could not really see much more than 2 dots, one in the center of each lens. Her eyes were too small when I looked at them through those extremely strong lenses. I wanted to take Laura to bed right then and there, but it was time for supper and Maddie would be underfoot until it was her bedtime. I wondered if I could convince Laura to leave her new glasses on until we went to bed later, but decided I would not say anything and would let her decide. I did tell her I would cook supper and clean up afterwards if she wanted to leave her GOC glasses on. She accepted my offer, and made no move to switch back to her own glasses.
 
I cleaned up after supper, put Maddie to bed and after reading her a story I joined Laura in the living room. She was sitting really close to the television and I suspected that this was the furthest distance where she could see best from.
 
“I thought my eyes were bad before Jimmy. I am actually glad that they are not this bad. It would be terrible being this nearsighted. I can’t even see anything at all without them. And even with them on my eyesight is terrible.” Laura said.
 
“Are you sorry I bought those glasses and the contact lenses?” I asked.
 
‘No, not now. When I have them on I am really horny. Do you want to go to bed early?” Laura suggested.
 
That night we went to bed very early and had a lot of enjoyment. After we finished we showered and I helped Laura take out her contacts. They were extended wear contacts so she likely could have slept with them in, but sometimes her eyes became irritated by her other contacts so I thought it best that she did not wear them overnight. Towards morning I woke up with a hard on, and after getting up and taking a leak it came right back. Laura was awake by then, and we made love again. Even when Laura wore her regular -40D glasses to make love I still got just as aroused as I had gotten with her wearing the -85D glasses.
 
I soon realized that Laura had gotten hooked by these glasses. I knew even before I met her that I had what I called an optical obsession. I obsessed over any girl that wore a reasonably strong prescription, but since I had landed a girl that now wore perhaps the strongest minus glasses of anyone I felt I had won the lottery. Because of the way that Laura had forced her eyes to adapt to stronger and stronger glasses even before I met her I suspected that Laura might have had a little bit of Body Integrity Identity Disorder – BIID for short. And after the first time she wore the -85D glasses over contact lenses I was pretty sure that Laura had a case of BIID as far as her eyesight was concerned. The following night after I got home from work Laura wanted me to put the +30D contacts in, and then she put on the -85D glasses for the rest of the evening. She even cooked supper and then cleaned up the kitchen. After about a month of doing this after I got home she then asked me one day to help her put the contacts in before I left for work, and I did that. By the time we took her contacts out that night she had worn the contacts for 17 hours. I asked her how her eyes felt and she told me they felt wonderful. That began a routine where I helped her put her contacts in first thing every morning and to take them out every evening.
 
After about 6 months of her wearing the GOC combination Laura had gotten quite accustomed to her vision through the -85D lenses. Her field of vision was very small, but she functioned fairly well because she had gotten completely used to moving her head and not her eyes. She had been forced to do this with her -40D glasses and so she had no problems with the -85D ones. And she no longer felt “trippy” when she wore them. The minification had been a little hard to get used to, but she was handling things very well.
 
The first sign that there might be a problem came around the 1 year point. It was time to get her new contacts and Laura asked me if I could possibly order her a pair of contacts that were a few diopters weaker because she felt that she would have better vision then. I then asked her what power she wanted me to order her for contacts and she suggested +25D. I was a little worried and I told her that I thought she needed to see her eye doctor first. Finally she realized that I was correct in my thinking so we made an appointment for her with the same eye doctor she had been using. She was a little shocked when her doctor discovered that her eyes now needed a glasses prescription of -45D. We ordered her a new pair of -45D glasses and I was pretty sure that she would want to stop doing GOC. 
 
I really didn’t care if Laura stopped doing GOC or not. Now she was playing with her own eyes and I talked to her to make sure she still wanted to go this route. She did ask me to go ahead and order her the +25D contact lenses, so I knew she had made her decision. When the +25D contacts came in I still had to help her put the lenses in every morning. However it did seem that she had a little better vision with the new contacts under the same -85D glasses, although  I didn’t know how that could possibly be.
 
Maddie was 4 when Laura discovered that she was pregnant again. We had wanted to have our children to be closer in age to each other, but one doesn’t always have the choice. During her pregnancy Laura wanted me to order her even weaker contacts, so I went along with her wishes and ordered her +20D lenses. After Kevin was born and Laura finished breast feeding him I insisted that Laura needed to have her eyes examined again. Her newest prescription needed to be -60D and once again we ordered her a pair of -60D glasses. She had not worn her old -45D glasses more than once or twice and while I hated to spend the money on a new pair for her, if she had problems with her contacts she would be helpless with her old -45D glasses. I wasn’t sure why her prescription had jumped by a full -15D, but it had and there was no sense crying over the fact now. 
 
With a -60D prescription there should have been no way that Laura could wear the -85D glasses without the strong contacts underneath them.  But she didn’t have to pull the -85D glasses down her nose as far as I thought she should have to before she could see fairly well without wearing contacts to correct that additional -25D of myopia. I suspected that when it came to the proper calculations for the contacts I should likely lower the strength of the contacts quite a bit. I ordered a pair of +15D as well as another pair of +10D and when the lenses came in I tried the +15D pair in Laura’s eyes first. She wore them for a couple of days and then she wanted me to try the +10D contacts. After I put them in and she put her -85D glasses on she told me that these lenses seemed to be just right.
 
I had no way of knowing if Laura was lying to me or not. By now I knew that Laura was destroying her vision willingly. Everyone had grown accustomed to seeing Laura wearing the -85D glasses and they believed the story that her eyes had deteriorated to this point naturally. I knew that by now she was tired of having to have me put the contact lenses in for her every morning and I figured that she wanted to reach the point where she could put them on and wear the -85D glasses without being dependent on me. I realized that by wearing the weakest contact lenses that she could wear under the strong glasses her eyes would deteriorate even faster because of the overcorrection.  Knowing that her contacts were likely too weak and that her eyes would get worse fairly rapidly I had suggested that we should go back to see her eye doctor again, but she had told me that since she could see fairly well it wasn’t necessary. The cost of a pair of glasses for her was quite high, and I didn’t mind not having to spend the money, but I did also worry that she might be wearing her contact lenses too much.
 
By the time Laura turned 30 she no longer wore any contact lenses under her -85D glasses. She could now see about as well without any contacts as she ever could through those strong lenses that she had now worn for the last 4 years. I had noticed that over the past 4 years she liked going out in public more frequently because she often got stared at by quite a large number of the people who saw her. I am pretty sure that she loved the fact that people stared at her strong and unusual glasses wherever she went.
 
Laura could no longer wear just minus contact lenses because the strongest minus contacts that she could get were nowhere close enough to what she required to make it worth her while. She had been avoiding going to her eye doctor to actually find out what prescription she needed for glasses, and I think that was because she wanted to be sure that he would prescribe her glasses that were at least as strong as the -85D she was wearing. She was now wearing her old -20D contacts underneath her -60D glasses whenever she could talk me into putting them in to her eyes. I think that her plans were to go to see her eye doctor with these -60D glasses with the -20D contacts under them, which would give her another -26D of correction and that would be enough for her to be prescribed the -85D that she wanted.
 
Finally Laura informed me that she had an eye appointment for the following Friday afternoon and she wanted me to take the afternoon off work to take her. Of course I agreed, and I arranged to get the afternoon off. Her appointment was for 3 pm, and most times in the past we were at the eye doctor’s office for half an hour at the most. Today Laura was in the examination room for well over an hour. When I asked her what took so long she told me that the doctor ran every sort of test on her eyes that he possibly could. He was dumfounded that her myopia had climbed so high, and he wanted to make sure that her retinas were not about to snap like a tight rubber band. And when she came out of the office the doctor had to lead Laura over to me, as she had taken her contact lenses out and she only had her -60D glasses on. I had to choose a new frame for Laura, because there was no way she could see anything. And, the girl in the optical department of the doctor’s office did not even know if they could get a pair of glasses that were that strong made for us. Apparently Laura now needed a prescription of -88D.
 
It took almost 6 weeks before Laura’s new glasses were ready. They were very similar in appearance to the -85D ones she had been wearing previously. They were double myodiscs, with a frosted band around the part with the prescription, and I am likely the only person in the world who thought Laura looked fantastic wearing them. She was pretty happy to get her new glasses, and I really don’t know why because her vision really was not very good. But I suppose that her glasses helped her out a lot because she was truly blind without them. I thought -88D must surely be a record for a prescription, but it turns out that it isn’t. The record is held by a man who lives in Slovakia and has a prescription of -106D with quite a bit of astigmatism.
 
Laura liked wearing her glasses much better now that she didn’t have to mess with any contact lenses. I had told her about the man with the -106D prescription, and I don’t think she has any desire to go for as strong a prescription as he has.  I am hopeful that Laura will have satisfied her desire to be so extremely myopic. I know she has more than satisfied my optical obsessiveness. But of course whenever we have any discussions about her extremely poor vision it is always my fault for making her wear the -85D glasses.
 
Specs4ever
Dec 27, 2018.
 
 

https://vision-and-spex.com/it-was-my-fault-t1648.html
