---
title: "Nick's family eyesight."
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-04-19'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

Nick was the oldest in a family of 4 consisting of 2 sisters, Becky, Debbie and a brother Lance in that order of age. When Nick transferred to the same school in Southern Indiana I was in we did not get along for stupid kids reasons. At that time there was a rival basketball league to the NBA known as the ABA American Basketball Association. If you don't know or are too young to know what the ABA was google, Facebook or even YouTube has information on it. This is where the disagreement started. I was a Kentucky Colonels fan a team based in Louisville just across the river from where I live. Nick was an Indiana Pacers fan a team based in Indianapolis. By the 6th grade we had started getting a little friendlier towards each other. Nick was a math whiz so when the teacher did a contest with flash cards he would have the student stand up that got it first and the go to the next person and so on. If you got beat you sat down and the other student took your place. I took great pride in beating Nick as my mind worked quick in the 60's and 70's. I usually got beat by the next student but I didn't care because I was one of the few that could beat Nick at this game. In time we not only became friends but best friends though we still had different favorite teams. Nick and another kid in the same grade usually hung out at my house during the summer because both my parents worked. Nick's Mother wore glasses ever since I had known her. Nick's sister Becky was the first of the kids to get glasses because her piano teacher suggested an eye exam. Nick was told in grade school and again in junior high he was slightly Myopic but he didn't need glasses yet. At the junior high exam Nick was told he would need glasses in 2 years. In the summer before his sophomore year Nick got his glasses and from the start wore them full time. Nick younger Debbie also got glasses but I don't remember if she got them before or after Nick. Lance as far as I know never wore glasses except possibly for reading when he got to that age range. After we graduated high school Nick went to college and we only saw each sparingly. When Nick graduated college he took a job in this area and again we didn't see each other too often. In the mid 80's tragically Debbie who had an out of wedlock baby was killed in a car accident. Either before or after his younger sisters death Nick's Dad died of heart problems. Nick's Dad as far as I knew never wore glasses except possibly for reading. Nick then took a job out of state and we again didn't see each other too much and finally we lost contact with each other for over 20 years. In the summer of last year after we a re connected on Facebook Nick was back in town visiting but due to my work schedule I again didn't get to see him. Before we connected again I did see Nick's Mom who had raised her late Daughter's Son around town and would get updates on him. Sadly last year after Nick returned home I started getting Facebook updates he was very ill and finally his family had to turn life support off and he passed away. I went to the funeral home and the funeral where Nick who had never got Lasik or wore contacts that I know of was laid out wearing his glasses. Debbie who had became quite the lady was there still wearing glasses. Lance was there still not wearing glasses so unless he was wearing contacts probably only needs glasses for reading. Nick's Nephew now all grown up was there also wearing glasses. I only wish I could have saw Nick one last time while he was in town but I didn't know what the future held.

https://vision-and-spex.com/nick-s-family-eyesight-t1266.html
