---
title: Night Blindness
author: Bobby
date: '2019-12-16'
categories:
  - Bobby
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

I had been going with Janice since she was 15 and she has only gotten prettier since we first started dating. I really like her and we plan to get married once we graduate and are out in the work force. The only thing that could have improved her appearance would be, in my opinion, if she were a little nearsighted and needed glasses. I kind of like the looks of girls that wear glasses, but since she had good eyesight I guess all I could do was wish.
 
Janice got her temporary driver’s license at 16, and had to pass an eye test. Then when it was time to convert her beginner’s license to a permanent one when she turned 17 she had to pass another eye test. She passed both these eye tests with perfect vision, which is why I was very surprised when she told me she was having a lot of trouble seeing the road signs when she was driving to work. She was working for the summer at a restaurant at a marina and she had to be there at 5 in the morning to open up and put the coffee on. So she was driving in the dark for about 30 minutes before daybreak on the weekends in May. As the longest day of the year approached she didn’t say anything about having any more problems seeing things, but as the days gradually grew a little shorter, by August she was really complaining about her eyesight. I had heard of night myopia and had read a little bit about it. Apparently, night myopia could manifest itself from as low as -0.50D all the way up to a maximum of -4.00D, but the higher amount was very rare and all most people required was a correction of -0.50D up to -1.50D.
 
August turned into September and Janice no longer had to drive to work as we were both back in school. I didn’t have access to a car, mainly because insurance for an unmarried male under the age of 25 with no driving experience was horribly expensive and my parents just couldn’t afford to add me to their policy.  But Janice’s dad purchased a new car and had given her their old Honda that was in decent condition. With no collision insurance on the car the premiums for Janice were not terribly expensive. We would often go to a show on Friday night, and as the nights grew longer into October Janice was now asking me to drive home. I asked her a couple of times to try to read a sign that to me was as plain as could be, and she would tell me she couldn’t see anything. Finally I talked to her about the possibility that she might have night myopia and could benefit from wearing glasses. She was adamant at first that her eyes were great, and they were in the daytime, but she finally realized that she did have a real problem after dark.
 
I went with Janice to her eye appointment. She was able to see most of the 20/20 line on the chart without any problem in good light. But we had told the doctor about her problems at night, so he did some special tests in a dark room, with flashes of lights coming on intermittently just as if there were car headlights appearing.  Apparently Janice became quite nearsighted in the dark, and the doctor told her that she needed to get herself a pair of glasses to wear when she drove after dark. He was even going to notify the DMV to have a glasses after dark restriction placed on her license. Janice and I went out to the optical section and we looked at frames. There were a couple of frames that looked really good on Janice, and we were going to order her prescription in the nicest looking pair. That is when I saw what her prescription was. She had -5.00D as a prescription to wear while driving after dark. I couldn’t believe it. The highest prescription I had ever read about for night blindness was -4.00D. I thought the doctor might have made a mistake and had given Janice too much minus.
Now it was November, and Janice often came by to pick me up to drive me to school. She looked really hot wearing her glasses and I told her so every morning when she came by. And she said she could see everything perfectly when she was wearing her glasses in the dark. I guess it was around the middle of November when I started to notice that Janice was still wearing her glasses when I saw her in the hallway between classes. After a few days of this I asked her one morning why she was wearing her glasses all day now. She told me that after wearing her glasses to drive to school if she took them off she could no longer see the board clearly until after about 10 o clock so it was just better to wear the glasses and then she could see the board perfectly all day. I thought to myself that this was going to ruin her eyes and likely make her permanently nearsighted, but she looked so gorgeous wearing her glasses that I didn’t say a thing. Apparently when she was home during the evening she also wore her glasses until she went to bed, and her parents had asked her why she was doing this, but she told them the same thing she told me – she could not see clearly without them for a quite a while after she took them off.
 
I was not terribly surprised when Janice started to complain that she could not see as clearly in the dark as she could when she first got her glasses. We went back to see her eye doctor and he found she now had developed -2.50D of myopia so her new night driving glasses needed to be -7.50D in strength. The doctor told her that if she was going to wear glasses all the time she needed to buy herself a pair of glasses with her prescribed prescription, but after Janice and I talked we decided that if she just wore the stronger pair while driving in the dark she should be all right if she still wore the -5.00D glasses the rest of the time.
 
I still liked her appearance wearing the -5D glasses, and for a couple of months she wore them all day. The -5.00D lenses had a nice appearance to them, and they looked just strong enough to mark Janice as a girl who really needed glasses to see properly. Janice, on the other hand, liked how the frame with the -7.50D lenses looked a lot better. I didn’t dislike them, and actually the slightly thicker lenses did arouse me sexually but as I started to see Janice wearing the stronger glasses during the day at school I worried that she was making her eyes worse without intending to. I talked with Janice about this possibility and she just laughed and told me she didn’t care if her eyes got a little worse because she liked the looks of the thicker lenses. I was pretty sure that when she had her eyes tested to be prescribed with a -2.50D prescription, most of this myopia was likely pseudo myopia, but I was willing to bet that some of her pseudo myopia had now become axial myopia. Her wearing of the -7.50D glasses every waking moment would help increase her axial myopia and would also likely create some more pseudo myopia, but I had no idea how much, or how long this would take.
 
When the longer summer days came around again Janice had been wearing her -7.50D glasses full time for a couple of months. She had no problems driving around that summer, although she did ask me to drive home from a dance a couple of times, and once from the movies. I wondered if that indicated that her vision at night had become even more myopic, but I kept my mouth shut. When September came and we headed off to the local community college together for a degree Janice was still wearing the -7.50D glasses as her full time choice and I wondered if the night myopia had lessened a little. But with the days growing shorter I soon found out that it hadn’t and another trip to see the eye doctor was in order.
 
This time he found that Janice’s real myopia had climbed all the way to-6.50D. The eye doctor did not want to give her an additional -5D for her night time myopia, but apparently she could not see well enough at night with any less, so her new night time glasses were now going to be -11.50D. I had a couple of reasons for talking Janice into getting her night time glasses in standard CR39 plastic. I knew that this prescription, in the plastic frame she had chosen, would be quite thick, and might even have to have the outer edges shaved off in order for the temples to close. I thought that this would make Janice hate the looks of the glasses so much that she would actually only wear them when she was driving at night. The real reason though was that when Janice was wearing these thick glasses I would be very excited at seeing her wearing them, and since I was most often in the car with her at night then I was the one who would get the main benefit.
 
As I had predicted the lenses were so thick they did have to be shaved off a little at the outer edges of the lenses. And Janice really did not like her appearance as much when she was wearing them when she first got them. I was now pretty sure this would work and that she would not be trying to wear the -11.50D glasses around in the daytime. And it did work until well after Christmas. Janice picked me up one morning in late January and of course she was wearing her night driving glasses as we drove to school. We parked in the parking lot, and as we walked into the school I noticed that Janice had not taken off her -11.50D glasses. I didn’t say a thing. I loved looking at her wearing those thick lenses in the big plastic frame.  I saw her in the hall a couple of times during the day and she was still wearing those glasses when we left school that day.
 
We had both taken 2 year college courses and were well into the latter part of the first year. Janice was taking a course in child care and she planned to work with children in a day care setting. I was taking my degree in programming so that I could write the programs for the milling machines and such. We had discussed marriage after we graduated but had made no firm plans other than we both decided to look for jobs in the area so we could stay together. I sort of wondered if Janice had started to wear the thicker glasses to see if she could get a reaction from me, but I decided I would not say anything and would just see what she did next. From the experience of past couple of years I expected that Janice would wear the stronger glasses all summer and into the fall, and then as the daylight hours grew shorter, then I anticipated she would have her eyesight tested again.
 
And this is exactly what happened. When her vision was tested the doctor found that Janice’s myopia had actually increased to be -11.00D. It was no wonder that she had found that she needed to wear the -11.50D glasses all the time. But her night myopia could seemingly now be corrected with only another -4.00D so her doctor prescribed -15.00D for night driving and he suggested that she could still wear her -11.50D glasses during the day. Janice wanted to buy her -15.00D glasses with a much thinner lens material, so she got the 1.67 hi index option and when we picked up the new glasses they didn’t look any stronger than her old -11.50D regular index glasses looked.
 
This winter Janice was much better at trying to restrict her -15.00D glasses to her evening and early morning driving. It wasn’t until late April before I noticed that Janice was now wearing the -15.00D glasses pretty much all the time. When I asked her whether she was not afraid that doing this would make her eyes even more nearsighted she told me that she couldn’t help it. She could no longer see clearly enough when she wore the -11.50D glasses. For the first time since she had gotten glasses and I originally told her she looked hot wearing them she asked me if I no longer liked her appearance wearing glasses now that her lenses needed to be so much thicker. All I could tell her was that I still loved her appearance wearing glasses, even with the much stronger lenses but I was afraid her vision was getting to the point where it would be considered very poor and I was afraid if she got even more myopic she could reach a point where her eyesight might not be able to be fully corrected. 
 
We both graduated and I found a job at a company that made custom injection molds for the plastics industry.  Janice went to work for a fairly large daycare center, so we were both going to be earning decent money. Now we were talking very seriously about getting married, and during the course of our conversations Janice asked me if I wanted her to wear contacts for the wedding, as she wanted to get herself contacts now and get used to wearing them in plenty of time. I told her that it was entirely up to her. I said I liked her looks when she wore glasses, but she was also very pretty without them. But I did add that I really didn’t think she needed the added expense of buying and wearing contacts, because she would likely need new glasses again by mid-October when the daylight hours diminished.
 
And sure enough, as the dwindling daylight hours of October came around Janice was having her usual problems seeing in the evenings. This time her actual prescription had climbed to -14D, but her night myopia had declined to -3.00D. Her doctor wanted her to get contact lenses to correct the actual myopia, and then get a pair of glasses that were -3.00D to wear over them when she needed them for night driving.  Fortunately for me Janice decided she would just continue wearing her -15.00D glasses and would buy a pair of -17.00D glasses for her night driving.
 
Janice continued wearing her -15.00D glasses all that winter. She did of course wear the stronger glasses while driving in the evenings and the early mornings, but I never saw her wear the -17.00D glasses during the day until sometime in April. Once she started to wear them she rapidly went to wearing them full time and I was willing to bet that when she had her annual October eye exam her new prescription would be very close to the same -17.00D prescription that was in her glasses. And I was correct. This time her eye doctor found that Janice had completely adapted to the -17.00D prescription and in fact she actually could use another -1.00D, making her daytime glasses -18.00D. But the good news was that Janice was growing out of her night time blindness. Her eye doctor told her that she only needed an additional -2.00D now for driving at night.
 
We got Janice 2 new pairs of glasses, and that is when I got my first clue that Janice might have been trying all along to get her prescription to increase substantially. Her new -20D glasses were ordered as biconcave lenses and the frame she chose had a large enough lens opening size that even with the biconcave lens the lenses were myodiscs. She did not even order the -18.00D glasses and went immediately to full time wear of the -20.00D glasses. She asked me what I thought about this, and after seeing her wearing the new biconcave -20.00D myodiscs in the larger sized Ray Ban frame I had to tell her that she looked absolutely fantastic. And she really was the most gorgeous girl I had ever seen. Her new glasses made her very special to me and that night I asked her to marry me.
 
The following year, after we had been married for 3 months, we went back to her eye doctor again. Her prescription was exactly -19.50D, and while she still had a trace of night myopia it had dropped to around -1.00D or a little less so her doctor suggested that she could just continue wearing her -19.50D glasses and see how much it bothered her while driving after dark.
 
A year later we had a 3 month old son. Janice had noticed a slight change in her vision while she was in the latter stage of her pregnancy, but it didn’t seem to be enough to worry about running to the eye doctor until it was time for her annual vision exam. Her doctor found that she needed her prescription increased to -21.00D, but he also found that her night blindness was now less than -0.50D so he suggested that she should just get the new prescription for full time wear and he would see how she had adapted at her next eye exam.
 
Janice ordered the same lenses in the exact same frame she had been wearing. I really couldn’t tell the difference, but I still thought she was the most gorgeous woman I could ever have hoped for. My original thought that Janice would look better wearing glasses had come true.
 
Specs4ever
Sept 2018

https://vision-and-spex.com/night-blindness-t1569.html
