---
title: Reading problems?
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-12-07'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

During the 2012-13 school year 22 year old Dale of Corbin Kentucky is a sophomore at Indiana University Bloomington. A sophomore at 22 you ask? Dale had to wait two years before starting college due to the business administration class he wanted being full. Dale in the two years worked in his families successful HVAC business and wanted to follow his Dad into the business so why college? Business was great but Dale's parents had to hire a firm to do things such as payroll and he would be able to save money one day when taking over the business.
Before starting college Dale had an eye exam showing very mild Myopia. The Optometrist told Dale if he thought he needed glasses she would prescribe them but they would be -.25 in each eye which is the lowest prescription there is for Myopia while noting the only thing he would need them for is night driving. Dale declined noting that he was not going to have a car at college and would not be driving. Dale goes thru his freshman and due to being busy helping in the business does not have an eye exam that summer.
Dale who was told a good sign of Myopia increasing would be in the large college classrooms would be if he has trouble seeing the things farther away. Dale notices early in his sophomore year having to squint to see some stuff farther away Dale after contacting his parents is told to get an exam in Bloomington and glasses if needed. Dale goes to Pearl Vision in a mall in Bloomington and is prescribed glasses with a -50R and -75L as needed. Dale is told the glasses will help in the classroom and night driving when he gets back home. The glasses do help in class and when home for Christmas break wears them for night driving and again they help.
Problems start when after looking at something far away in class and then trying to write down or read something Dale has trouble seeing printed matter or what's on paper while wearing glasses. Dale goes back to Pearl Vision and is told to simply take off his glasses to read. When reading away from the classroom it is not a problem because Dale only wears his glasses when needed and can see up close fine without them. Dale finds taking his glasses on and off in class a  pain. The solution comes from a classmate in a required sophomore class. The classmate much like Dale was forced to get glasses and her prescription is -1 in both eyes slightly stronger then his are. 
The classmate age 20 on her own decided to order bifocals with a +1 on line during her freshman year. The lined bifocals work and when Dale tries her glasses on he can see out of them both far away and up close. Dale decides to order bifocals with the +1 and since he can see out far away out of the -1 glasses ups his distance prescription. Dale is very happy when he gets the new glasses and now he doesn't have to take them off to read and notices it's easier when reading away from the classroom is easier. Dale to save money ordered the lined bifocals but when he finds out how well they work decides to order progressive.
Dale when home after his sophomore year goes to the regular family Optometrist and lies saying he has been prescribed the glasses he is wearing. The Dr. does all the tests and raises Dale's right eye to -.75 while keeping the progressive the same as well as adding some Astigmatism for his left eye only. Dale at his regular eye exam asks if he is wearing glasses too much causing his vision to change? The Optometrist who has examined Dale since he was 8 years old checks the record noting that at age 14 he had better then 20/20 vision and by age 16 it had changed to 20/20. The Dr. explains that wearing glasses is a myth noting that Dale's vision changed while he was not wearing any type of prescription glasses. Dale is told  full time wear will not cause changes in his vision so that is what he decides to do..
Dale graduates college with a business administration degree and goes to work in the families HVAC business. Dale in addition to doing the actual HVAC work is now handling the administration and will take over the business when his parents retire in about 10 years. Dale's glasses prescription has only changed by -.25 in each eye while the progressive has remained the same. Today Dale is engaged to be married Barbara who is the girl who gave him the idea of bifocals. Dale and Barbara of South Bend Indiana had a long distance relationship until she moved to Corbin a year ago. Barbara still wears lined bifocals due to trying progressive and not being able to get used to them.

https://vision-and-spex.com/reading-problems-t1552.html
