---
title: "Steven's ordeal"
author: soindiana88
date: '2019-04-08'
categories:
  - soindiana88
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

14 year old Steven's ordeal began on the last day of school in 2017 when his non custodial Mom picked him up for what was supposed to be a routine visit. His parents had divorced a year ago and Steven chose to live with his Dad. Unknown to Steven or his Dad his Mom had taken a job and rented a house in a city 300 miles away from the town that they all lived in. Steven's Mom explained on the way to the new town that his Dad now dating didn't want him anymore. Steven who loved his Mom was skeptical as he and his Dad had been very close. At a routine eye exam two years ago Steven was told he was showing signs of Myopia and if it progressed normally he would need glasses in 2 years. Steven's Mom who was able to put him on her insurance at work took him for an eye exam. Steven was prescribed glasses for mild Myopia. The Dr. told Steven to wear glasses as needed basically anytime he was having trouble seeing far away. The Dr. told Steven in two years he would probably need glasses full time due to the usual progression of Myopia so enjoy not having to wear them all the time for now. This is when Steven's Mom started doing some strange things which made him suspicious. First despite what the Dr. told Steven and his Mom she insisted he wear his glasses full time. Second Steven an A-B student who often made the honor roll was taken to a barber shop to have his long blond hair cut with a zero guard for bad grades. Third the thing Steven complained about the most was his Mom insisted on having his ears pierced. Third even though Steven worked odd jobs all and paid for it himself last summer his Mom took his iPhone away saying his Dad wanted it back. Steven who had a tough decision on who to live with wanted to believe his Mom but was skeptical again. Steven's Mom treated him well buying him all new clothes and almost every weekend took him to an area amusement park. It was at the park in late summer Steven got the break he needed. While in the restroom out of sight of his Mom a man who looked rough on the outside asked him what was wrong by the expression on his face. Steven told the man about his Dad. The man broke down crying and handed Steven his phone and said call your Dad and hear he doesn't want you for himself. Sadly the phone could not get a signal and nobody around had a pen to write down Steven's Dad's  phone number. The man who had lost his Dad that he was close to 10 months ago. Noting the park had a lost and found the man told Steven to find something at home that the park employees would have to look in and leave a note in it to call the police. Steven chose his glasses case and since he had found an old pair of broken sunglasses put them in it with the note. The parks employees at first weren't going to call the police but a supervisor said we will call to make sure. The supervisor decided to contact police in Steven's hometown and found out to his surprise there was a missing/abducted child case on it. The local police were called and Steven's Mom was arrested but only charged with a minor crime of custodial interference. Steven was reunited with his Dad just 4 days before school started. Steven's Mom in a plea deal pleaded guilty to a non felony charge getting a suspended sentence and even keeping her job. Steven's Mom had to return his phone which was filled with text messages from his Dad and friends looking for him. Today Steven is a well adjusted 16 year old still making good grades even straight A's for one semester. Steven who had never had straight A's on any report card credited his glasses for giving him confidence. Oddly Steven from his time with his Mom changed some things. First he liked the way his vision was with glasses and continued wearing them full time. Second due to much easier care Steven decided to keep his hair very short. Third and the biggest surprise Steven decided to keep his earrings. Steven decided to keep the earrings after finding a picture of a teenager in a family album with one ear pierced. Steven asked his Dad who's this and he said me at 14. Before Steven was born his Dad had taken a professional job and removed his earring. Steven's Dad who believed in letting him express himself was fine with this. At his regular eye exam as expected Steven was told he needed glasses full time. Steven who had researched full time versus part time wearing of glasses and the effect on Myopia asked his Dr. if he had made his eyes worse by wearing them more the told. The Dr. said no explaining professional opinion differs on how much Myopic kids should wear glasses and he always prescribes full time wear for all kids and 95 percent of adults. The Dr. said his only adult exception is if a patient say they have trouble driving at night and prescribes -.50 compared to Steven who is now a -1.75 and -2.00 up from -1 and -1.50 for his first glasses. Steven and his Dad wish they could meet and thank the man who caused them to be reunited even taking out adds in the newspaper where the park is but so far no luck.

https://vision-and-spex.com/steven-s-ordeal-t1253.html
