---
title: 'The Specsaholic:'
author: nic
date: '2018-11-17'
categories:
  - nic
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

                                        
 
I am a specsaholic. That is the only word I can use to describe myself. An alcoholic can’t stop himself from wanting alcohol, and will drink themselves into oblivion without any consideration for others or for his or her own health.  My health is not really affected by my disease, but my life certainly is.  I love glasses, that is all there is to it.  Oh, I don’t really care for those pairs of glasses that have the lower prescriptions.  But if a pair of glasses has a prescription of over +6D or -9D I can’t stay away from them. If there was a pair of lower powered prescription glasses sitting on a counter I would not be able to stop myself from picking them up and trying them on, but as I said, glasses with a lower prescription do not really affect me.  I would never rip a pair of strong glasses from a person’s face to try them on, but the thought of doing so has actually crossed my mind a time or two.  And if you leave your glasses behind on a bus, or in a restaurant and I happen to find them, if the glasses have a decent prescription you will never see them again.
 
You might think I am an older person but let me assure you that at this point I had only recently passed my 26th birthday. My specsaholicism has been part of my life since I was about 12 or 13, and it has just grown deeper and more severe with each passing year. At first I wanted very badly to need and wear glasses myself, but I couldn’t find a way to convince my parents that my vision was anything less than perfect. This meant that, unfortunately, I was never able to get a pair of glasses of my own that I could wear until about 2 years ago, when I finally ordered myself a pair of -2.50D glasses from an online optical store. I have worn these glasses for almost 2 years now, and I think I see a bit better when I am wearing them, but I really never take them off so I can’t be sure.  I am planning to increase the power of my glasses to at least -3.50D very soon, and maybe I might even try -4.00D, but I am afraid that I might not be able to wear a pair that strong.
 
I have always planned to find a girlfriend who wears relatively strong glasses. I would rather have a girl that wore minus glasses, but I do like the looks of plus glasses, so I would be willing to date any girl wearing a decent prescription.  But so far I have had no luck. I meet lots of nice looking girls, but they are all either wearing contact lenses or they have perfect vision, and I find that one hard to believe.
 
A couple of weeks ago I met an attractive young lady at a bar. We seemed to hit it off and even though she did not wear glasses I rather liked her. I arranged to pick her up a few nights later to take her out to dinner, and when I went to her door to pick her up I was met by a good looking young boy of about 9 or 10 years of age. He wore a pair of glasses that were a little weaker than what I would really consider a decent prescription, however for a kid of 9 or 10 they would be considered fairly strong.  I took a guess that his right lens was likely between -7.75D and -8.50D because the front surface of the lens seemed to be almost flat with possibly a +0.50D base curve. His left lens was weaker and was likely between -6.50D and -7.00D because the front curve wasn’t quite as flat as the other one. It probably had around a +1.00D base curve. When his mom came to the door only a minute or so later I resolved to give her a much closer look because I had not spotted contact lenses in her eyes, but with the kid having such a strong minus prescription I was sure his myopia had to come from somewhere.
 
I was to be disappointed though. As carefully as I looked I could not see any signs of contacts on her eyeball.  I tossed around the thought that maybe she might have had eye surgery, but Becky had only been 16 when Jordan was born and she had worked at menial jobs ever since. There was no way she could have been able to afford an operation on her eyes. I came to the reluctant conclusion that Jordan’s myopia had likely come from his father.
 
Becky and I really got along well. Eventually we moved in together and I became more like a father to Jordan. Becky did not know who Jordan’s real dad was as she told me that she had been date raped at a party by a group of boys. I almost suggested to her that if she wanted to know she should pick out one of the guys from the group that date raped her and if he wore glasses for the correction of myopia he would be the best prospect to have his DNA tested, but she didn’t really seem to be inclined to find Jordan’s dad, so I let it lie and said no more.
 
I did order a pair of glasses with a prescription of -3.50D. Once I had worn those stronger glasses for a couple of weeks I wished I had gone for an even stronger prescription but I decided that I would wait for a while. I had a more interesting project in the works right at the moment.
 
I had discovered that Jordan was very sensitive to any change in his vision. He soon complained to me that he couldn’t see as clearly anymore, and I took him to visit his eye doctor.  His last prescription change had been only 3 months ago and his prescription had been very close to what I had thought it was. His new prescription was to be OS -8.25 x – 0.75 x 102 and OD – 7.50 x -1.00 x 45 and his new glasses ended up having flat fronts on both the lenses.  Becky had not spent the money for high index lenses for the old pair, and I didn’t either. But the interesting part to me was that this was only a -0.25D increase from his other pair. I never heard of anyone that could really notice a difference of only 0.25D before.
 
After Jordan got his new glasses I watched him closely for the next three months.  Sure enough, as he got closer to the 3 month mark I noticed him squinting at things so I made him another eye appointment. I enjoyed going with him to his eye doctor and the first time I took him I actually went in with him when the doctor verified his new prescription with the phoropter. The eye doctor tried his best to not have to supply new lenses for free, because they had a policy of giving a customer new lenses free of charge if there was a prescription change within the first 3 months.  I knew that Jordan had only required another -0.25D for each eye so it was impossible for the doctor to give him lenses that were any stronger, and while the doctor tried to tell us that Jordan could go another 3 months without new lenses I insisted that Jordan should be wearing the best possible prescription so he really needed the new lenses, no matter how insignificant a change it seemed to be.  Jordan ended up with his new lenses supposedly being -8.50D and -7.75D with the same bit of astigmatic correction. I knew the doctor was upset at having to pay for Jordan’s new lenses out of his profits and I wondered what he would say if we came back in less than another 3 months.
 
When Jordan didn’t complain about his glasses being too weak within the 3 month period I had my suspicions that his eye doctor had added -0.50D to both lenses from his earlier prescription. When Jordan went 5 months before he stared to complain I was sure of this, and this time when I took Jordan back for another visit I was asked to sit in the waiting room instead of being allowed into the examining room. Sure enough, when Jordan came out with his new prescription it read OS -9.25 x -1.00 x 105 and OS -8.50 x -1.50 x 45. I was almost positive the eye doctor had given him at least another -0.25 extra over what he needed in each eye.  For the next 2 or 3 years Jordan seemed to require new lenses at a point somewhere between month 5 and month 6 and some of his prescription increases were closer to -1D per eye than they were to -0.50D. He had been close to -10D when he had his 10th birthday and now by the time he was 13 his glasses were OD -15.50 x -1.50 x 100 and OS -15.00 x -2.00 x 55. His mom didn’t have the money to buy him hi index lenses, nor did I and as a result his glasses were very thick looking and the outer edges close to the temples were shaved off to look sort of like myodiscs. His eye doctor mentioned that he should try contact lenses, but again there was no money to buy them for him.
 
With Jordan setting such a good example by needing stronger lenses all the time I had managed to increase the strength of my own glasses up to -7.50D. My lenses had not yet reached the point where they were flat in the front, but I was really comfortable wearing them, and now when I took them off the blur never cleared up the way it had with my first pair. By this time I had turned 30 and I had worn glasses for 6 years. I already had purchased a pair of -8.50 D glasses in the same frame that I wore from time to time, and I did very well wearing them on sunny days.  But I couldn’t see well enough to read while I was wearing them so I knew I still had a while to go before I would be able to change to them for full time wear.
 
It was fairly obvious to me why Jordan’s eyesight kept getting worse and worse. I was seldom there when he came home from school, but the few times I observed him I saw him come in, throw his backpack on the floor and he would take out his tablet and play video games on it while lying on the couch. He did read a lot, but instead of a real book he read a lot of e books on his tablet.  It wasn’t much of a surprise to me when by the time he was 15 Jordan had reached a prescription of -18D. I was sure that it hadn’t helped Jordan at all in that all his eye exams had been done right after his day in school, although this might not have mattered because he spent so little time outside anyway.
 
By this time Jordan was as tall as me and I knew that in a couple more years my 6ft would be towered over by this lean lanky very nearsighted boy.  He had gotten a job as a bag boy at the nearby grocery store and I thought this was a good move because it kept him away from his tablet for a while each day.  But this didn’t stop his eyes from reaching a prescription of -20D a year and a half later. I had saved a bit of money, and I could have bought Jordan thinner, nicer looking, lenses for his new glasses. When I offered to do this for him he just told me that he was used to how thick his glasses were and there was no sense wasting money on the thinner lenses when his eyes were only going to get worse anyway. Apparently he had asked his eye doctor when his eyes would stop getting worse, and how much worse could he expect them to get and his eye doctor told him that he could expect increases up until he was around 25 years old. And, if his eyes continued getting worse at the same rate that they had been, he could easily reach a prescription of around -30D. He told this to his mom and me the night he came home with his new -20D glasses, but he didn’t seem to be too concerned about this prognosis.
 
Jordan’s new -20D glasses were quite thick looking. The front of his lenses were dished in a lot and the new heavy black frames he had chosen had a large enough lens size that the curved edges of the prescription in the rear of the lens did not reach the edges of the frame. Of course Jordan had worn what looked like myodiscs since he was around 13 years old, so other than the new glasses being dished in so much on the front his glasses didn’t look that much different than what we were used to. I actually envied Jordan with his almost ¾” thick glasses, although I don’t know if I could have had the nerve to wear them myself. Over the past 3 years I had gotten to the point where I was now wearing my new -10D glasses. Finally I had the flat fronts that I had wanted, and I felt really good about myself when I was wearing them. 
 
Jordan had found himself a girlfriend. Skylar was a cashier at the grocery store where he worked. Skylar was also tall, likely 5’8 or 5’9, and busty. She was a little heavy in the rear end, and her legs were a little thick going up into her butt. She was extremely attractive, although the strong glasses she wore looked to be a little large for her face. There was enough power in those lenses she wore to show everyone she was a very nearsighted girl. This girl was Jordan’s first and only girlfriend and as soon as I laid eyes on her I realized that she was a specsaholics wet dream. I could only hope that Jordan and Skylar would end up together for a very long time and that would fulfil my viewing pleasures.
 
It didn’t take long before Skylar started spending a lot of time at our house.  Becky and I had tried to have children, but for some reason nothing happened. Skylar became the daughter that Becky had always wanted, and I soon found out that the reason Skylar was at our place so often was that her own home life was not the greatest. She had 2 brothers and 2 sisters and since she was the oldest girl she was expected to cook and clean up after the others. But her sisters were twins and were only a year younger than she was, so she was sick and tired of doing everything for them. And her brothers were just lazy and wouldn’t lift a finger to help. Skylar didn’t mind helping Becky around our place but she just didn’t want to be treated as a maid at her own house
 
Skylar had been working to earn money so she could buy herself contacts.  But when she went to her eye doctor it was discovered that for some reason or another the only contacts that she could tolerate were extremely expensive and she didn’t feel comfortable wearing them.  I suspected that Skylar’s inability to wear contacts might have influenced Jordan to the point where he no longer talked about someday getting them.  Her prescription was not quite as strong as Jordan’s, but even so -17.50D is a pretty substantial prescription.
 
Skylar and Jordan were in the same grade at school and they did almost all of their studying at our place.  Sometimes it seemed like Skylar lived at our house because she was there almost as much as Jordan was.  Her birthday was only a couple of weeks behind Jordan’s, so they were really close in age. I loved to watch these 2 kids together, both with their strong minus glasses on their faces.  Almost 2 years had gone by with Jordan and Skylar being boyfriend and girlfriend, and sometimes I wondered if they were even a little more than boyfriend and girlfriend because there were many evenings when Becky and I were not home until close to 6 pm, and I knew that Jordan and Skylar had already been there for a couple of hours. I had mentioned that Skylar was a little heavy, and while this was still true, she was very careful with what she ate, and she exercised enough so that she never seemed to get any heavier. She was a naturally big boned girl and she looked extremely good right at the weight she worked so hard to maintain.
 
Right around the 2 year point in their relationship Skylar mentioned that she needed to get new glasses.  I thought about this, and I realized it had been about 2 years since Jordan had needed an increase in his prescription. When Skylar announced that she was having her eyes checked I asked Jordan if he needed to make an appointment but he told me that he had gone in for a checkup on his own, and his glasses were still the correct prescription. Skylar did need another diopter added to her prescription though, and this time her new glasses looked to be perfect for the size and shape of her face. They were still slightly larger than I liked, as I believe that glasses should be looked upon as an accessory like fine jewelry rather than a bold statement, but they did look quite nice on her. She had chosen a medium index lens and to cut down on the thickness they had put some of her now -18.50D prescription in the front, so both she and Jordan now had biconcave lenses in their glasses.
 
Another year slipped by and Jordan and Skylar were still as much a couple as ever.  Jordan finally needed a bit of an increase in his prescription and he chose the same medium index lenses as Skylar had chosen the previous year. His glasses now didn’t look quite as thick, so he was pleased. They had been talking marriage for the past few months, as apparently the store where they worked was willing to take both of them on as full time employees. Becky and I had discussed this possibility and we had decided that since we had a fairly large house they could live with us, and if Jordan helped me we could put an apartment in the basement.
 
We barely got the apartment finished in time. While Jordan and I were working on it I thought that Skylar looked to be gaining a bit of weight. When she had to have her glasses prescription increased after only 18 months I was pretty sure that she would soon be announcing that she was pregnant. She came home wearing her new glasses and she had such a glow to her face that I asked her if she was pregnant. She was, although she had not yet told Jordan. He was as thrilled as Becky and I were.
 
I had managed to satisfy my specsaholicism by having a very myopic stepson, as well as eventually wearing my own -10D glasses. It was a bonus when my myopic stepson found himself a lovely highly myopic lady to eventually marry. And now the future is pretty well assured to give me some highly myopic grandchildren to satisfy my specsaholic viewing requirements.
 
Specs4ever
Nov 2017

https://vision-and-spex.com/the-specsaholic-t1094.html
