---
title: 'The Affair:'
author: val
date: '2018-10-16'
categories:
  - val
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

As I approached my 50th birthday I would sometimes reflect on my life as I had lived it.  There were a couple of things I had done that I was not proud of and I would have liked to have had the chance to be able to do over a few things, but of course that is not an option.  My wife had passed earlier in the year from a very rapidly advancing form of cancer and if I had known she was not going to outlive me I would have treated her with more respect and would have spent more time with her while she was alive. She was very forgiving and I had been by her side through every step of her cancer treatment and was with her when she died so I felt she knew I loved her deeply before she passed.  But I still would have done a few things differently.  The one thing I had done that I could not tell her about, and which I often wished I had not done was that I had a short lived affair with my secretary soon after our two children were born. I could never have told her about this affair, and although I wished it had never happened I eventually discovered that this affair was something that turned out to be one of the best things I had happen to me in my life. 
 
You might wonder how an affair between two married people could turn out to be one of the best things that I had ever done, especially when I was assuaged with guilt for many years.  I will have to tell you a bit more of the story, and hope that you will then have a better understanding of this affair.
 
Mary and I were married when I was 24 and she was 22. I had been working for a large freight company, first as a dock hand and then, after I turned 21, as a transport driver.
I continued delivering freight for the first four years of our marriage before I was asked if I wanted to come into the office and dispatch trucks. After 2 years of dispatch I was rapidly promoted to be the terminal manager. The only thing I didn’t have control over was hiring and firing, which was handled out of the main terminal in a nearby city, and that was just fine by me. If I reached a point where I needed someone terminated all I had to do was forward my reasons and all the warnings I had accumulated in their files to the personnel manager, and they were generally very accommodating.  By this time Mary and I had been married for 6 years and we had a son 4 and a daughter 2. I was still deeply in love with my wife and things seemed to be going well with our marriage, even though our sex life had been diminished greatly due to the children always requiring attention from one or the other of us. Mary had returned to her job as a teller at a bank, and her mom, who lived nearby, was a godsend as a babysitter.
 
Mary was quite an attractive lady. One of the things that had drawn me to her was the fact that she wore glasses, but after the kids were born and she went back to work at the bank she started to wear contact lenses more frequently. Her prescription was not terribly strong, but back then a prescription of -7D with a bit of astigmatism made for reasonably thick looking lenses in the drop temple frames with the relatively large lens sizes of the day.  I thought Mary’s glasses looked fantastic on her pretty face, but even with me telling her that I liked her looks while wearing her glasses she still wore contacts as much of the time as she could. I just couldn’t bring myself to tell her that her glasses were something that drew me to her, as I was sure she would think I was crazy. I obviously had a bit of an obsession for ladies who wore glasses, because everywhere I went I would look around at any glasses wearing women.
 
Shortly after I became the terminal manager a new bookkeeper and billing clerk was sent to my terminal.  Peggy was a nice looking girl who was around the age of 24, and if I had still been a single man there was nothing about her appearance that would have stopped me from hitting on her. She did not wear glasses and as a happily married man her wearing glasses was about the only thing that would have drawn me to her. Peggy was very efficient at her job, and she made my life much easier because of her hard work as she gradually took over some of the chores that had been my responsibility.
 
When two people of similar ages are thrown together in a work environment they quite often become close, and this is what happened between Peggy and myself. I had my gripes about Mary, and the fact that she spent more time with the kids than she did with me. Peggy’s husband Dan spent a little too much time at the local watering hole, and never gave her a hand around the house or with the children.  My interest was really piqued one day when Peggy complained that Dan didn’t like to see her wearing her glasses, as I had not realized that she wore glasses.  Once I knew this I was able to detect the contact lenses in her eyes.  Also, once I knew about the contacts I observed that Peggy often drew her face closer to the computer screen than she should have. As well, when she was doing paperwork I now noticed that Peggy brought stuff closer to her face than would seem comfortable to me. Of course, I never mentioned a word to her.
 
Then one morning Peggy came in to work wearing her glasses. I took one look at her and I think she could almost see the lust in my eyes.  Her glasses were rather thick looking. The lens opening in the frame was really quite small for the styles of the day. And the frame did not exceed the width of her face. Her lenses were totally flat on the front surface, and from the sides the lenses looked to be somewhere around ¾” thick, although only about ½”stuck out behind the frame. To me, her glasses looked like a dream.  I didn’t even have to ask her why she was wearing her glasses, as she immediately told me that she needed to wear glasses for at least a week before her annual eye exam. I told her that she looked good in glasses and she looked at me with a funny expression on her face so I didn’t push the issue.
 
The week that Peggy wore her glasses was extremely hard on me. I made up excuse after excuse to spend time with, or around her. By the end of the week I was a nervous wreck and it was almost a relief when Monday rolled around. Peggy had taken the morning off in order to go to her eye doctor and when she returned after lunch that day she was again wearing contact lenses.  I asked her what the results of her exam were, and she told me that it was just like usual. She needed stronger glasses and contacts again. I simply told her that I hoped she would wear her new glasses to the office once in a while just so we could see her wearing them.
 
It took a couple of weeks before Peggy got her new glasses.  I was pretty sure she had already gotten her new contacts because she wasn’t bringing her face as close to the computer monitor as she had been.  This was 1983, and computer monitors were much smaller and the print size displayed on them was also rather tiny. Our company was doing their best to become computerized for all the billing and dispatch and I figured that the eyesight of the office personnel would suffer from all the necessary staring at the computer screens.  It was a Thursday when Peggy showed up wearing her new glasses.  The lenses were just as thick as her old ones, but the front surface had a bit of an indentation to them so I knew that some of the power was in the front of the lens. Her new frame was similar in appearance to her other frame, but was in a soft blue instead of the caramel brown of her old frame. I loved how they looked on her, and I told her so.  She kidded with me and suggested that if I liked seeing her wearing glasses then maybe she could wear them one day a week.  I jumped right on that suggestion and I told her than from now on it would be glasses Thursday for her.  And much to my surprise she came to work the following Thursday wearing her glasses.  When it happened the week after that, as well as the following week I was ecstatic. I probably couldn’t have survived being around her if she had decided to go to full time wear, but one day a week was just perfect.
 
I always looked forward to seeing Peggy wearing her glasses every Thursday.  And, after a while she would sometimes also wear glasses on Wednesday or Friday. Sometimes she would even wear glasses all three days and I knew from these three days of her wearing glasses that I couldn’t have managed being around her if she had chosen to wear glasses full time.  Once in a while we would discuss her glasses, and she told me that she actually liked wearing glasses more than she did contacts, but when she was around 16 her mother had talked her into getting, and wearing, contact lenses. Her mother had told her that she would not have as wide a choice of boyfriends if she didn’t wear contacts, and she supposed her mom was correct in her advice, but because she wore contacts instead of glasses she had ended up married to a man who hated to see her wearing glasses.
 
It had only taken a few weeks of wearing her new prescription before Peggy went back to bringing everything much closer to her face when she was reading or working on the computer. After about 9 or 10 months I started to notice that when she looked up from whatever close work she was doing to look at the clock on the wall, or to maybe try to recognize a driver at the dispatch window she would narrow her eyes and squint myopically at whatever she was trying to see. It was more noticeable when she was wearing glasses because first she would squint and then she would push her glasses tight to the bridge of her nose. I mentioned one day that it looked to me like she might need stronger glasses again. She told me that she knew she did, but she wanted to wait a full year before she had her eye exam. She also mentioned that she really liked getting new, stronger glasses but what really surprised me was when she mentioned that stronger glasses always made her horny.  I couldn’t help myself. I told her that her getting new, stronger glasses also made me horny.  I suppose a sexual innuendo like that could, in this day and age, have gotten me fired, but Peggy just laughed.
 
As our children got a little older there were the usual tensions at home. Mary had, after being back at work for 2 years, required an eye exam and new glasses and contacts. She was always very careful to take out her contacts in the early evening and she then wore her glasses until bedtime. Her new prescription was somewhere around -8.25D or maybe -8.50D and I liked the fact that her lenses were a bit thicker and had flat fronts.  Because of the larger frame opening size Mary’s glasses had lenses that were about ½” thick at the outer edges. Of course, the thickness of her new glasses was almost the end of the world to Mary. Our sex life improved a bit as the kids grew older, but even though I had suggested it a time or two Mary would not leave her glasses on while we made love. And when we were making love I hate to say it, but Peggy was the one I was making love to in my mind.
 
As the time approached for Peggy to have her annual eye exam I was looking forward to seeing her wearing her glasses. If her appointment was on a Monday like the last time I was hoping that she would wear her glasses from the Wednesday right through to a week from the Monday of her exam. When she showed up at work wearing her glasses on Monday morning though I thought she likely had her eye exam the next Monday.  I was thrilled when I found out that she would be wearing her glasses for two whole weeks because one of her contacts had been really bothering her.
 
I don’t know if what happened next would ever have happened if there had not been a room set aside as a driver’s bedroom at the terminal. It was almost never used anymore, because our line haul drivers all had sleeper berths in their trucks. At one time we had needed to lay drivers without sleepers over once in a while, and the room was kept for these occasions. The office generally shut down around 5pm, and we all went home, but once in a while there was an emergency that we had to stick around for. If we stayed late once in a while it would not be thought of as being suspicious.  One night during the second week of Peggy wearing her glasses she and I were the last two leaving and as we walked out the door Peggy brushed against me. I reached out and pulled her to me and gave her a big hug. “Kiss me.” she said, and I did. The next thing I knew was that the office doors was locked and we were heading for the drivers bedroom.
 
I knew what we were doing was wrong. I knew that I stood to lose my wife and children if it was ever found out that Peggy and I had been involved in a sexual relationship.  But laying on that bed, having intercourse with Peggy, who acquiesced to my request to leave her glasses on, I felt I was willing to give up everything for this very shortsighted lady. Of course, when we finished we both knew we would have to hurry to get home, so after a quick cleanup I drove Peggy to the bus stop that she normally walked home from and then I hurried home myself.
 
The next day I was sure that the other people in the office could tell that Peggy and I had been sexually involved, but of course that was just my guilt coming out. At the time I did not regret one little bit what had happened, but I knew we had to be careful that it never happened again.
 
And maybe it wouldn’t have ever happened again if Peggy had been able to go back to wearing her contact lenses.  After her visit to her eye doctor he had advised her against wearing contacts for at least 6 months, because she had a corneal ulcer on the eye that had been bothering her.  She told me her new glasses were stronger, but to me they were not noticeably thicker and I found I liked her appearance wearing her new frames as much as I had liked the other ones.
 
It was pretty much inevitable that Peggy and I ended up using the terminal bedroom again within a week of her getting her new glasses.  I know; it was only inevitable because we both wanted it that way. But for some reason we did both want the affair to go on and I suppose Peggy enjoyed the sex every bit as much as I did. We tried to be very discrete about our weekly love making in the terminal bedroom and I am sure that if circumstances hadn’t changed there would have been a couple of divorces and a remarriage.  I won’t say it was fortunate, but Peggy’s husband Dan was transferred to the city by his company. Peggy put in a request for transfer to our companies head office and her request was approved, so now, even though we would still be working for the same company, I would no longer have daily face to face contact with Peggy.
 
Over the next few years I got my relationship with my wife back on track and the secret of my affair never came to light. I still spoke with Peggy on the phone from time to time, as she was now head of the billing department for the company. She and Dan had another child not too long after they moved so now they had 2 girls but Dan had wanted a boy so they tried once more and fortunately ended up with a boy. When I chatted with Peggy on the phone she really didn’t spend much time discussing personal stuff, but I did get the impression that she was even more disenchanted with Dan than she had been when she worked at my terminal.
 
I guess I had been a pretty good employee because when Mary was diagnosed with cancer my company gave me a year’s leave of absence.  We knew that her cancer was pretty much untreatable and the end result was that all we could do was make her comfortable. Mary ended up in Hospice for almost a month, and as I said, I was there with her every day until the end. Our kids were devastated to lose their mom at such a young age as our son Brad was 23 and had just finished university. Laura was in her last year, and her plans were to go on to become a teacher.  Mary was as positive as she could be with the kids, and I think that by the time she passed on she had prepared them fairly well for life in the future without her. I really hated to see Mary pass on, because in the past 10 years she had worn glasses pretty much all of the time and her now -11.50D prescription was more to my liking. But these thing happen so I ended up a widower at age 49.
 
I had only been off for about 11 months. But there had been quite a few changes in the transportation industry over that period and the company wanted me to come to head office for what was termed as a refresher. I wasn’t sure if they were planning to send me back to my terminal and the thought crossed my mind that they might just be planning to work me into a position where they could retire me from.  I resolved to make the best of the situation though, and I was looking forward to seeing Peggy again.
 
The morning I went to the head office for the first time I was greeted by name by a very attractive mid 40’s lady. She was slim, trim, and quite pretty but she didn’t wear glasses, although I had clued in by the fact that she recognized me and knew my name before being introduced that this might just be Peggy. As I looked at this very attractive lady I recognized the features and knew that indeed she was Peggy. She showed me to the general manager’s office, where I was to wait for him to show up.
 
I was shocked. When he showed up Bryan told me he was retiring, and they really wanted to train me to take his place. This was quite a surprise. Although I knew I had done a fairly decent job over the past almost 20 years of managing the other terminal I had no idea that they would even consider me for this position. I had just assumed I would retire from my other job when the time came. After a few days of training I discovered that there were a few new procedures to be trained in, but for the most part most of the day to day items were so routine that anyone with a bit of common sense could have handled the position.  I was asked if I would move to the city, and that was a no brainer as my son had just taken a job at a company there, and my daughter would be attending teacher’s college there.  The house I owned had too many memories for me to stay there, and the idea of selling it had already crossed my mind.
 
It did not take me long to reconnect with Peggy. She and her husband had divorced about 6 years earlier. His drinking had finally upset her enough that she told him to either go to AA or get out and he chose to leave. Peggy had not realized that he had already been having his own affair with a girl he had met at the bar he drank at and even though she was a little surprised by the revelation she was actually pleased and relieved to be free from his toxic attitude.
 
The second week I was in training I had noticed that Peggy had not worn her glasses at all the previous week so I joked with her that it looked as if she had forgotten all about “Glasses Thursday.” She replied that no one around the office had enjoyed seeing her wearing her glasses as much as I had so she had stopped wearing her glasses to work one day a week. She had gone to wearing soft contact lenses after the corneal ulcer had cleared up and now she only wore her glasses sporadically. I told her that she could wear her glasses anytime she felt like it, as I certainly would enjoy seeing her wearing them. Her reply was that I might not enjoy seeing her wearing glasses as much now as they had gotten quite a bit stronger and they were pretty unusual looking. I just told her that she should wear them whenever she felt like it and then I would make my decision.
 
That Thursday Peggy showed up wearing her glasses. She was right in saying that they looked quite different as the lenses were now myodiscs, but I couldn’t tell that they were stronger because with myodisc lenses the only way you can tell if they are stronger is that the circle in the middle becomes smaller as the power of the lens increases.  I had not seen her previous glasses, so I had no point of reference. I did tell her that I liked her appearance wearing glasses every bit as much as I always had and she gave me a big smile.
 
I had not yet spoken with Peggy about my status as a widower as our conversations had been fairly limited.  I wasn’t trying to keep it a secret, but as I thought she was still married to Dan I didn’t want to rock the boat. I knew that my feelings for Peggy were still as strong as they had been 19 years earlier.  Peggy had apparently learned about my wife’s passing from someone else in the office that day and just before leaving work the afternoon of that first glasses Thursday she came to me and offered me her condolences on the passing of my wife.  I took the opportunity to ask her about Dan and her children, and she told me that Dan and she had parted company about 6 years earlier.
 
Finding that Peggy was no longer married made my decision to move to this new job a lot easier. Even though I would not have been with Peggy at work every day, my office would have been in such close proximity to hers that it would have taken a considerable amount of willpower on my part to stay away from her.  Although my late wife had been a very attractive girl, and Peggy had been a little more average looking the years had been kind to Peggy. She had likely done her best to watch her figure, as she was not overweight. And her average looking face was still just that, but for some reason she looked almost beautiful to me. It didn’t take long before I asked her to have dinner with me and we had a very pleasant evening – even more pleasant because she was wearing glasses when I picked her up. I was careful to not make any comments about her wearing glasses other than to simply tell her she looked very attractive. We had a really great time together and had quite a discussion about our 18 or 19 years apart.
 
I had seen pictures of Peggy’s oldest daughter Michelle but Sophie and Allan had not been born until after Dan and Peggy had moved to the city.  Michelle and Allan looked similarly alike. They both had dark hair and features that indicated a family resemblance. Sophie was blonde, had much different features and wore what appeared to be very strong glasses. She had definitely inherited her mother’s extreme myopia, and like her mom she looked quite attractive wearing glasses. She wore her hair long, with bangs and I could tell that she had a high forehead which the bangs hid nicely.  Her face was what I would call a long oval and her chin was slightly pointed. She had beautiful white teeth and it was possible that she might have worn braces to get her teeth so straight and perfect.  Her glasses were a red plastic frame that was not quite a cat’s eye shape, but likely could have been referred to as that. The outer edges of her lenses by the temples were shaved off, indicating that her prescription was too strong to fill the whole frame. When you looked at her from a slightly sideways view you could also see how the circle continued by her nose on each side although the complete circle wasn’t visible from a head on view. To me, a myodisc lens is a complete circle inside the carrier, and these were almost but not quite myodiscs.  Of course I was more enamored by Sophie than I was by the other two kids, but all three of them were very nice looking kids.
 
There was a familiarity about Sophie that I could not quite put my finger on. I suppose if she had worn contact lenses I would have spotted the resemblance much sooner, but it took another month before I saw Sophie without her glasses on. I was over at the house one day when she removed her glasses to clean them, and once I saw Sophie without her glasses I knew instantly who she reminded me of. Without glasses Sophie reminded me of my sister. And as I looked closer I could see a close resemblance to my own daughter. All of a sudden the thought came to my mind that Sophie might possibly be my daughter. I didn’t dare express this to Sophie without first talking to Peggy, and I really wasn’t sure how I could broach the subject with Peggy.
 
My first attempt to broach the subject with Peggy a week or so later was by a reference to the fact that Sophie had inherited Peggy’s extreme myopia. Peggy surprised me with her response.
 
“She has more than inherited my myopia. She has also inherited my love of being extremely myopic.” Peggy replied.
 
“What do you mean by that?” I asked.
 
“I have never told this to anyone else, but since you seem to like and approve of my appearance in glasses I hope you will understand what I am about to tell you and will not judge me too harshly.” Peggy said.
 
“Tell me and I will try.” I responded.
 
“This goes back to when I was a little girl. My teacher in grade 3 and 4 was a really nice lady that wore very thick glasses and I was fascinated by her glasses. All the time I was in her class I imagined myself wearing glasses just like hers and being a schoolteacher when I got older.  Partway through our grade 4 year my best friend Susan had her eyes tested and was found to be nearsighted. She had to get glasses and her mom made her wear them all the time.  But sometimes I would get Susan to let me wear them, and I was very surprised to find that I could see through her glasses very well. The following year when Susan had to get stronger glasses I convinced her to let me wear her old glasses and I started wearing them every day in school. I had to take them off after I got home from school but after a few months of wearing Susan’s glasses I discovered that without then everything looked kind of fuzzy. One day I told my mom that Susan had lent me her old glasses because things looked fuzzy to me and my mom made an appointment with an eye doctor to have my eyes tested. I had my eyes tested, and I told the doctor that I had been wearing my friend’s old glasses. He checked and then he told my mom that the prescription in Susan’s old glasses was not quite strong enough for the prescription my eyes needed. It was going to be a couple of weeks before my own glasses came in and he told my mom that I could wear Susan’s old glasses as much as I needed to until my own glasses were ready.” Peggy told me.
 
“That isn’t unusual. It is quite likely that you actually were becoming slightly nearsighted when you started wearing Susan’s glasses and that just accelerated your myopic development.” I replied.
 
“I suppose that is a possibility.  But I actually did everything I possibly could to make my eyes worse. I read constantly with my face quite close to my books. I colored a lot, again pulling my face right up to whatever I was doing. And it seemed to work, because every year my parents had to buy me new glasses so that I could see what the teacher was writing on the board. I was 9 when I got my own glasses and by the time I was in grade 8, when I was 12, I was wearing glasses that were -6 diopters in both eyes. I could no longer see much without my glasses. And when I was 13 and was going through puberty my breasts started to develop and my eyes got even worse. By the time I was 15 my glasses had a prescription of -9D and my parents hated the fact that my glasses were so thick looking. That is when they started to try to talk me into getting contact lenses and when I needed stronger glasses just before I turned 16 I did get contacts. I didn’t want to wear contacts. I liked wearing glasses but I bowed to the pressure,” Peggy said.
 
“How did wearing contacts work out for you?” I asked.
 
“I am pretty sure that the contacts helped to make me even more shortsighted. I spent a lot of time reading still, and I always held my book really close.  My contacts got stronger every year, and while my parents didn’t buy me new glasses every time my contact lens powers needed to be increased, when I did get new lenses put in my old frames, or new glasses I was always pleased about the fact that my lenses kept getting thicker. But while I was in High School and University I only wore contacts out in public.  I changed my mind about being a teacher and took accounting instead.  I met and married Dan when I was 22. We had Michelle when I was almost 24, and I came to work with you when Michelle was less than a year old.  Then 2 years after Michelle I had Sophie, and Jason was born a year and a half after Sophie.” Peggy continued. 
 
“You told me a couple of things years ago that interested me. One was that Dan hated seeing you wearing glasses, and another was that wearing glasses made you horny. Why did you marry Dan if he couldn’t stand you wearing glasses, and why did you feel there was a sexual component to wearing glasses?” I asked
 
“I didn’t date Dan for long enough really. We should have lived together before we got married and then he would have seen me wearing glasses around the house, He seemed just fine with the fact that I had lousy eyesight and needed contacts, but I made a bad mistake by not ever wearing my glasses when we went out together. And both our parents were against us living together without being married, so we ended up having a wedding.  When Dan saw me wearing glasses for the first time he almost freaked out that they were so thick looking.  He accepted the fact that my vision was quite poor, but he let it be known that he thought my glasses made me look ugly.  It was hard for me to wear my glasses around him. He never abused me physically, but he certainly did verbally. And as far as my glasses making me sexually aroused, I don’t really know what the reason for that is.  I suspect that when I was younger and I first started wearing Susan’s glasses I wasn’t really sexually aroused, although I remember feeling something wonderful when I put on her glasses.  It was like eating some food that I was forbidden to eat. Then, when I got my own glasses every time they needed to have stronger lenses it gave me a really intense feeling.  I would lay on my bed with my new glasses on and I would masturbate. And when I would put my glasses on instead of wearing my contacts I would feel like I wanted to make myself come. I still feel that way when I am wearing my glasses. I take them off and look into the blur. Then when I put them back on and my surroundings become sharp and clear again I feel like I need to masturbate – or better yet to have sex with a man.” Peggy answered.
 
“Well, I am available if you need me.” I said laughingly. “But tell me, what did you mean when you said that Sophie was just like you and loved being extremely shortsighted?”
 
“When Sophie was only 4 years old I used to come home from work to find that she was wearing my old -6D glasses. I was 12 when I wore those glasses and here was 4 year old Sophie wearing them around the house.  Naturally I would take them from her and would admonish her for wearing them, but it seemed that no matter where I hid them she would find them. I probably didn’t catch her more than 3 or 4 times, and I am willing to bet that she likely wore those glasses almost every day when I was at work.  I told the sitter that she was not supposed to be wearing my old glasses, but I have a feeling that Sophie had her twisted around her finger and that she lied to me when she told me that she hadn’t noticed Sophie wearing glasses. I suppose it is possible that Sophie hid this from her, as she was hiding it from me, but the sitter must have been lazy or clueless to not notice that Sophie had glasses on.  And then the next year, when Sophie went to Kindergarten I took her for an eye exam. She was prescribed glasses and I was told that she had very bad eyesight and I should have brought her in sooner. She actually was prescribed glasses that were -6D.   I felt terrible that Sophie might actually have really needed those old glasses of mine.” Peggy said.
 
“Do you have any reason to suspect that she didn’t?” I asked.
 
“I never managed to catch her at it, but I suspect that after Sophie had her own glasses to wear that she started wearing my old –9D glasses to school.  And she likely wore them after school when she was at the day care. By the time Sophie was in grade 2 she was prescribed -9D for her glasses.  And whenever I went to a parent teacher conference her teacher would tell me that Sophie was such a wonderful student, but that it was too bad that she had such poor eyesight. When I would ask if Sophie needed to have her eyes checked again the teacher would always tell me that she seemed to be able to see fairly well, but whenever she was reading or coloring she had to bring everything so close to her eyes that she seemed to be almost blind. And I had noticed that at home as well.  Sophie always read at a distance of about 6” and would always complain that she couldn’t see if I made her pull her head back.” Peggy told me.
 
“It looks like Sophie’s nearsightedness increased fairly rapidly. If my calculations are correct she is around 19 years old now isn’t she? And her glasses look pretty thick. What is her prescription now?” I asked.
 
“You should already know how old she is Blair. You were about 29 and I was 25 when we created her. And the glasses she is now wearing are right around -20D.” Peggy said.
 
‘Oh, wow, I sort of suspected that Sophie might be my child because when I saw her last week at your place she had her glasses off cleaning them. Without her glasses I saw a very strong resemblance to my sister, and to my daughter.  Did Dan ever suspect that Sophie might not be his child?” I asked.
 
“He might have, but he never expressed his thoughts to me.  I think he did treat Sophie a bit differently than the other two, however I always thought it might have been because he didn’t like the fact that she wore glasses.” Peggy answered.
 
“Has Sophie ever expressed a desire to wear contact lenses?” I questioned.
 
“Never. She tells everyone who asks that she is not interested in wearing contacts and if you can’t accept her glasses then she doesn’t want you in her life.” Peggy replied.
 
Peggy and I didn’t waste much more time before we got married.  After the wedding she eventually quit wearing her contact lenses, not because I asked her to but because she wanted to for me. We told Sophie that I was her real father, but we asked her not to tell her brother and sister or my two kids.  Sophie and I are very close, and her myopia has now reached into the mid -20’s. She does not seem to be trying to increase her prescription any further and since she is 26 I hope her progression has stopped. She might have actually listened to me when I told her of some of the problems that high myopia can bring.  Sophie is going with a very nice guy, and I am hoping he will marry her, because he tells her he finds her very attractive wearing glasses. I think he is like me, and has a huge attraction for girls who need strong glasses.
 
I am sure that you will agree with me thinking that now the affair that Peggy and I had was one of the best things that could have happened to me.
 
Specs4ever
Oct. 2017
 
 

https://vision-and-spex.com/the-affair-t1074.html
