---
title: while on the yoga mat
author: ruckus1
date: '2014-04-20'
categories:
  - ruckus1
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

I recently found buried in some old data files this GWG story I started many years back. I'm just gonna paste it here in it's unfinished state:


…..with all things going for her, eyesight was not one of them.  Since birth her view of  the physical world was a blur.  [It registered early in her young unconscious mind the thought that things are not what they appear which later in her adult years would become the mantras: Trust in the Heart and  Appearances can be Deceiving.]  This increasing blur, if it could be imagined possible, advanced commensurate with her age.  That is,  when her shortsightedness was discovered before the age of one she was prescribed astonishingly strong glasses of nearly minus twenty diopters.  With each year her vision lessened by one diopter.  At 20,  her vision required a correction of minus forty diopters.  Her lack of eyesight had a deeper affect on her than just the appearance of increasingly thicker glasses.  She was teased mercilessly as a child which caused to increase her aloneness.  As a consequence,  she appeared aloof to others and became branded as a bookish girl . . . which she truly had become.  She could literally hide behind her glasses.  If you could imagine, by the time she reached 25 her eyes had become nearly invisible because of the reflective and minification affects of the lenses. How offsetting to so pleasing a woman’s appearance were these abnormal glasses.  The small diameter biconcave myodisc lenses grossly distorted her facial features.  If one could see through their flashing reflections into their glassy depths it might be just possible to see her eyes in miniature while at their minute outer edges the cut in was so severe that the world behind her appeared in miniature.  This gross distortion of scale difference between her overall facial appearance and her miniature set of eyes was disconcerting to say the least. To take in the overall effect would cause one to feel a discomfort leading to a quite inappropriate conclusion that something was terribly wrong with this girl.

Now, at 30 finally reaching  47 diopters with additional correction for considerable astigmatism she was in a league all her own.  For all intents and purposes her  glasses betrayed her beauty.  It was then, that Mick saw her for the first time . . . an ever so attractive woman stretching on a yoga mat; white spandex pants embracing every slender curved nuance; a white haltertop holding in her full breasts tightly to her chest  and more white about the eyes than one could figure a reason for.  He had seen sports glasses before.  These gave their concept new meaning.  The clear plastic lens holder was held firmly against her face by a taut white and black stripped elastic head band around her short haired head.  They appeared to be of considerable bothersome weight (making the strap so necessary).  The lenses that surrounded the myodisc inserts that had a ground white edge of over one inch in thickness.  The half inch diameter concave discs floated within  these thick slabs directly in front of the far away eyes .  Mick got quite close to her to ask if she would mind if he unrolled his mat next to hers.  Their eyes met.  He wondered if her eyes hurt as much as they appeared to. “No”, came the reply.  He rolled out his mat and watched her all the while. “I’m fairly new to this”, Mick offered, “so forgive me in advance if I let out some pained grunts or loose my balance and come falling in your direction. . . Have you been doing this long?”  “For a while” came the reply.  “I’ve been doing it in earnest now that I know it’s good exercise for my eyes.”  “Yea, I noticed your heavy duty equipment”. . .  A long silence. . .  “I didn’t mean anything by that.  One more thing I hope you can forgive me for.  You’d have to admit those glasses are pretty extraordinary.  Have you had them long?”  “Well, you’re just a pretty sorry guy” came her reply.  “These are new lenses or did you mean how long have I been wearing glasses?”.  “Whatever.  It just looks as though your eyes may hurt”  “They tire easily which is why this exercise is so good.  Although there are some positions I’ve been advised not to attempt because of the strain a possible detachments.”  Mick was utterly lost in rapture.  He looked at her intently as she faced forward imagining that the little eyes that floated within the lenses were not actually hers but artificially placed in the glass. . . what massive equipment for her vision correction.  As the class proceeded he allowed his clumsiness and ineptitude be excuses to look at her.  As she moved, stretched and bent around her eyes stayed strapped to her head. Mick imagined  her carefully removing the glasses.  Two hands lifting the frames away, pulling on the strap a bit.  Two hands bringing the glasses to rest on the dresser with a solid thud.  Was that before or after her shower?  Then a momentary blind faith.  Which pair would she grope for?  The ghastly thick pitiful looking pair she wore at home when no one was around?  The small expensive elegant ones that tried to belie their strength.    How could anyone ignore this.

https://vision-and-spex.com/while-on-the-yoga-mat-t448.html
