---
title: Why Me?
author: Halodude10
date: '2021-12-06'
categories:
  - Halodude10
tags:
  - 
  - 
thumbnail: 
description: 
---

This story is fiction. 

Great I thought to myself. Mum why are you making me do this I complained. Sarah your little brother failed his vision test at school and needs to get glasses. However, you’re always complaining about being tired after reading and headaches so I figured I would bring you in as well. But why my vision is fine I complained plus I’m 15 now I can decide for myself. No, you’re getting your eyes tested maybe if you get glasses, it might improve your crap grades and teach you for the way you treated your cousin when you were younger. Mum I was F..king 8, yea well you used to always tease her and it got so bad that your Aunt and my sister still hates me. She still won’t come for Thanksgiving. We got in the car and drove to the mall, I spent the trip texting my Bf John, why can’t you come to the game babe he asked. My B..ch of a mum making me get my eyes tested I replied. Babe I hope you don’t get glasses I don’t want to be seeing some nerd lol. Lol I Replied besides if I got glasses, they would only be for reading and crap. Yea well I hope you dont get them ahahaha 

We Finally got to the mall and my mum walked us to the eye doctor. When we arrived, I was seated until some young lady wearing what appeared to be glasses with circles in them call my name. Sarah Jones. I got up and went over. Ok Sarah the eye doctor will be with us soon however I just spoke with my mother, and she says you are complaining about headaches while doing schoolwork? Yea I replied but my vision is fine. Well, I’m going to run some tests on you before the doctor sees you would you kindly look into this machine. I Put my chin on a rest and looked at random images put in front of me while this lady clicked some button. Hmm interesting dear, very interesting. Oh, here is Dr Glenis. Hi young lady he replied I’m Dr Glenis and I’m going to look at your eyes now. 

After being led to another room he asked the question. Do you Currently wear glasses or contacts? No, I replied. Well, let’s check out your eyes then. I stepped into a room and was asked to read an eye chart and then made to Look into some contraption where he kept changing lenses and things on me. After making me read eye charts and card that he held up to my face he left then came back and dropped something into my eye which made everything go blurry and had me look through more and more lenses until I could see the bottom line on the chart, he then wrote something down and then made me read a page from some book while he put more lenses in front of me until I could read the small print. After a while he stopped and told me to sit back. My vision was blurry. Are you sure you have not worn glasses before? No, I Have not, I was getting frustrated with this. I could see fine before this. Dear you need glasses and badly. You are quite long sighted and will need glasses to help you correct this. Your eyes are straining badly to see, and I’m surprised you never came in sooner. I’m giving you a script for 2 pairs of glasses one pair is for reading and the other will be for everything else. What do you mean everything else? You need glasses for full time wear he said once you start wearing them your headaches and other issues will go, but you will need to wear them all the time if you want them to work. I also want to see you in 6 months as you will likely need a new script then and we might be able to try you on a thing called progressives. For now, however I recommend you get 2 pairs with cheap lenses as when you get your final pair, we can make them thinner if need be. F..k off I thought to myself I’m not wearing glasses especially not around John or at school. now when can I leave I asked? Wait here while I talk to your mother. After 5 minutes my mum came in and said Well the doctor says you need glasses just like your brother. I can’t believe you never got yourself tested before your eyes are worse than mine. We are getting you these right away. Afterwards I reluctantly came out tried some assorted frames. My brother was told he was slightly near-sighted and would need glasses for watching the tv and reading the board, mum and him chose some wire kids frame and he was jumping around all exited for his glasses me on the other hand was dreading it eventually  I found a large black ray ban frame I somewhat liked and got that but then my mum reminded me I also needed another pair, so I chose another pair of ray bans in and went up to the counter to pay. We can have your sons glasses ready by the end of the day miss jones however your daughter has a strong script, and the lenses will take a week to come in however we could get them the same day if we got something called CR39 however we were told that this might make the reading pair a bit thick My mum said it was fine and to just hurry up before I had a chance to protest. Great my glasses are going to be here sooner than I thought and I’m going to look like my cousin with her coke bottles. 

We went around the mall and did assorted shopping until my mum got a text from the shop. Well, your new glasses are ready. We went back to the shop and first my brother was taken to fitting are and had some adjustments made. Then the same lady who saw me this mourning came over with 2 cases. Ok madam here are your glasses. The first pair I’m giving you is for distance so I’m going to get you to try them on first she opened a case and put a pair of glasses on my face. I was in a shock everything looked clear up closely, but the other side of the mall was blurry although more shockingly. noticed that everything was big and looked so much closer to me. Yea kid that’s normal she replied now read this for me I managed to read the eye chart except for the last couple of lines. Its ok your distance will clear up once you are used to them. You will need to keep them on for most things. She made some adjustments to my glasses and handed me a mirror. I was in shock my eyes looked huge and I had 2 thick chunks of plastic in front of them which Looked distorted the lady then brought me my other case and I then saw the other glasses they were even thicker. the lens stuck out in front of the frame by a few mm and I was freaking out, great Nerd Glasses I’m going to end up like cousin Shelly FML. I then had the reading pair placed on my face and I was asked to read a card which with these glasses was surprisingly easy however I couldn’t see much past 6 meters with this pair on I then looked into the mirror and saw my eyes even bigger than before. I then put the reading pair back in the case and put back the other pair. So just a reminder I must wear them all the time? Yes, she will need them more than ever in a few weeks. Don’t take them off for the next few days except when in the shower and going to bed also when you’re reading and studying you will need to wear the reading pair as otherwise you will still get headaches. I’m going to also give you some eye drops that you can use for the next week to help you adjust to wearing these glasses. from tomorrow morning you should put one drop in each eye however afterwards only use the distance pair for the first hour. if you need you can apply a second drop during the day if your eyes find adjusting hard. I started to almost cry. Why me my eyes were fine before today why now. Hey, its ok the Assistant said most young girls your age need them, and you will hopefully enjoy them when your vision improves my daughter wears them and loves them. I walked out of the store and put my reading pair in my bag. No way I’m wearing these I thought. Once we got to the car I sat in the back and took my glasses off. Why are you taking them off you need to wear them my mum said? Omg mum this is a scam I don’t need these. Yes, you do now put them back on and wear them. 
On the drive back I looked around everything far away was still a blur however when I looked at my phone, I noticed it was easy to see and I managed to type a load of texts without needing auto correct as I usually did. When I got home mum told me that if she was going to drop me off at johns later, I would need to finish my assignment, so I decided to head up to my room. My mum also reminded me that I need to use my other pair for homework and that she expected me to use them.
I got up to my room and took my glasses off. No way am I wearing these. I went to put them back in my case and noticed some numbers on a card in my case. I picked up the card and it read the following.

+3.50  CYL 2.25 Axis 90
+4.00  CYl 1.50  Axis 90
Distance use (recommended full time wear)

I then opened up the thicker pair and read the card on that one.
+6.00 CYL 2.25 Axis 90
+6.50 CYL 1.50 Axis 90
Intended for reading use 

I looked at the reading pair. The lenses stuck out in front of the fame and looked like a Bug eye. No way I’m wearing these at school I thought. I then put them on and looked into my mirror my eyes looked huge like Bubbles from TPB. I looked up photos of some of my schoolmates who I knew wore glasses and none of them wore glasses as thick as this except this one girl who had coke bottles however hers minified her eyes not magnified. I then took my glasses off and noticed my phone was blurry for a few seconds. Afterwards I started typing on my computer but half an hour later my usual headache came on. FML I thought. I then went downstairs to use the bathroom however my mum stopped me. Why are you not wearing those glasses I paid for, GO PUT THEM ON she yelled? I reluctantly went back to my room and grabbed the distance pair and put them on. That’s better now keep them. I then sat down for dinner and after dinner I went back upstairs and sat down on my phone for a few hours however then I noticed the time and started getting changed to go to Johns, I completed that but realised I was still wearing my glasses and had been for a while I took them off this time to apply some makeup and noticed a slight blur when I looked into the mirror and it took longer to clear than last time. Afterwards I rang john and he said he was on his way to get me. I grabbed my things and went out the door while I was walking down the street, I slipped my glasses off and put them in my handbag I pulled out my phone to text john that I was ready to be picked up, but I found my eyes had to strain to read my small font. After what seemed like an eternity a car rocked up and it was john I hopped in and went over to his house.
 
After I said hi to his mum, we went upstairs and made out for a while and then decided to watch a movie however his Tv wouldn’t turn on, so we decided we had to use his iPad. Halfway through the movie my headaches started, however this time they were worse than before. After a while I said to john that I was feeling kind of sick and that I needed to go home however before he took me, he asked me so how did the eye test go? Great here we go I decided to tell him that yea I had gotten glasses, but I only needed them for reading and homework. Lol you’re turning into a nerd Sarah i just hope that you won’t need them when we get our prom photos. Ha-ha very funny I replied. So, show us babe. I went to go pull out my distance pair however I had put both pairs in my bag and accidently pulled out the thick reading pair. Holy shit he replied, how blind is you no way those are yours. Yea well they are this is the pair I got for reading. Wait so you got another pair lol you must be blind those are so thick, put them on. Holy shit your eyes are huge well idk how I’m going to deal with this. I can’t stand girls with glasses since what Cass did to me. Yea well I’m not her I don’t go sleeping with every dude I can find, yea I got glasses but its no big deal. Yea whatever. After that I put them away and we changed topic, but I didn’t want to stay so I got him to drive me home. On the way back I found my normal glasses and put them on before I got back. Well at least those are not quite so hideous. So, what are those ones for. Idk Apparently, I must wear these for everything else. So you are a nerd what next? Are you going to get hearing aids and a headgear? Bahahaha. Omg Joking but seriously you get some contacts. You don’t want to have to wear glasses for sporting season. 

Omg I don’t want glasses John my mum forced me to. chances are ill put them in a draw and forget them. I hope that’s the case he replied. he then gave me a crappy hug and i then left the car and walked up the street home.
I got home and went upstairs to my room. And started freaking out. So, what he’s going to dump me I thought. I took my glasses of and started to cry. I decided to hop on my computer and decided to look up some anime however after a while i noticed headaches again so I decided fuck it lets wear these things if he dumps me, it’s his loss, I decided to put on the reading pair and try roll with it after getting over the size difference I found wearing them pleasurable however they gave me distortion when i moved my head around and i noticed that my field of vision was smaller with them. Everything was easy to read tough and I got no headaches or eye strain, I must have been going for ages because when I got up to go the the bathroom it was almost mourning. I took my reading glasses off and everything up close was blurry and my hands were even fuzzy I then switched back to my distance pair while i could see up close with these ones on it wasn't as good as the reading pair. maybe I do need 2 pairs of glasses. I then looked out the street window with my distance pair and I noticed it wasn't as blurry as before.  it was a Sunday tomorrow so at least I had another day before the dreed of school. 
 
TBC
 
 
 

https://vision-and-spex.com/why-me-t2169.html
